On the Banting Facebook pages I follow, the diet is also often auto-translated into "baking", "bunting", "batting" and my own favourite, "banking". Particularly when used in the context of, "Is anyone else here frustrated with banking?"A woman texts her mother that she should shove dicks up her nose, instead of Vicks. Another tells her boyfriend she's been in bed with a Nigerian all day, when she was actually in bed with a migraine. At least that's her story and she's sticking to it. And one poor yobbo texted his girlfriend to say he's dumping her when he gets home that night. But before he could say he meant he was "jumping" her the second he got home, she'd already responded by saying she'd also been thinking they should spend some time apart.Dimples regularly auto-correct to nipples. Kissed auto-corrects to killed. Volvo auto-corrects to vulva. And aunt has a tendency to auto-correct to the c-word, which has made family Christmases even more awkies in the texting era. Musings about misheard lyrics It's already easy for things to get lost in translation in a relationship. Men and women don't speak the same language so much as different dialects of the same language.When a woman tells you she likes your blouse, it means she thinks you are wearing an attractive top, but when a man says it, he actually means, nice tits, wanna shag? When a man says he's fine, it means he's OK. But we all know what it means when a woman says it.I can't tell you how many times my friends and I have pored over a text message from some guy, trying to figure out if "it was nice to see you again" was a polite euphemism for "wanna bone?", or "I could take or leave you." Or if it had simply auto-corrected itself from "I never want to see you again."But auto-correct can save lives too. Once, after the suggestion we hike together went down like a lead balloon with a guy I was hoping to get it on with, I pretended auto-correct had changed my suggestion and I'd actually meant we should get a drink together. Oh how we laughed. Phew.I've often wished there was an auto-correct for real life. Being a person who regularly sticks her foot in her mouth, it would be great to have something to blame on those occasions when I speak out of turn and watch the other person's face sink. Sorry, did I say don't forget to bring condoms? I meant to say: don't forget to bring cardamom. I'll make a curry. Damn you, auto-correct.Follow the author of this article, Paige Nick, on Twitter @paigen or email her at amillionmilesfromnormal@gmail.com