The bone of contention seemed to be that I was arguing that living in the "white suburbs" was better than living in the townships.I experienced oodles of confusion at this. I had assumed it was obvious to everyone that living in a spacious house, in a quiet neighbourhood, just a few minutes from all major amenities, was preferable to living in cramped dwellings created during apartheid to house cheap labour miles from anywhere, in the butt crack of every major city. But like I said, I'm wrong about 50% of the time.I admit, though, that whenever I visit any township, I experience a fair level of dissonance which emanates from being a product of the kasie myself. Sure, there are aspects of living in a township that I don't miss at all. You say pap, I say paprika For instance, I'm grateful that I don't wake up every Sunday morning to a free Harold Melvin and the Bluenotes concert, courtesy of a generous neighbour who has placed a 1500kW subwoofer on his lawn so that the entire neighbourhood can enjoy his impeccable taste in soul music.And I don't miss getting home only to find that the neighbours are having a party and there are cars parked all over our manicured lawn. That, and the regular sight of peckers peeping through the fence to water our rose bushes, of course.Jacob Dlamini wrote a stunning book, Native Nostalgia , in which he tackled this phenomenon of people from the townships remembering the "good ole days" through a rose-tinted prism. It is a feeling I know all too well because, ultimately, part of the triumph of the human spirit is heavily dependent on filtering out the bad and remembering only the good.Because I'm a product of the township, I'm confident that when I talk in glowing terms about township life, I don't come across as a condescending bastard like a former colleague I went on a "consumer immersion" trip with, to Tembisa.Consumer immersion in this context is when companies send employees on a foray deep into the bowels of the dark abyss of the belly of the beast that is a township. This colleague kept gasping, "Their lawns are so well-kept and the inside of the house so clean and pristine!" I finally snapped, "Human beings have a tendency to like their houses clean, in general." Twitter has nothing on the instantaneous nature of kasie news sharing So anyway, about a week ago, I spent the entire day sitting on a beer crate in the street, in the Ekurhuleni township of Daveyton, with a bunch of fellows.It is incredible how many little things took me back to my own 'hood in KwaZulu-Natal. A little boy came down the street munching on a vetkoek when a mate of his started running towards him. Without missing a step, he yelled, "Niks mapha!" This loosely means, "We're not playing the sharing game today."It reminded me of my youngest brother, Nkalipho, who would sometimes spit all over an apple he was eating to avoid the "Can I take an itsy bitsy lil' bite of your apple?" requests that usually culminated in approximately 37.7% of your apple disappearing in a single bite.A girl came out of her gate, went into the house next door and returned with two tomatoes, an onion and half a butternut. Back home we called this practice of asking a neighbour for basic foodstuffs ukwenana. And you never really owed them for it; just an unstated understanding that you would reciprocate when they needed a cup of flour and two cloves of garlic.Kids are not so well imbued with this spirit of ubuntu. A few houses down the road, a young boy walked towards a gate, where he was met with a fierce scowl from another boy of about seven. All I could hear was, "Hamba kini! Akukho yini ukudla kini? Hamba!" (Go back home! Don't you have food over there? Just go!) Why engineers are a hilariously depressing group of peopleWhenever people start marvelling at the speed at which news travels in this age of Twitter and whatnot, I laugh dismissively. They clearly have never witnessed the instantaneous nature of kasie news dissemination.A woman alighted from a taxi and started telling everyone within earshot about Mishmash's pack of vicious dogs and how they had attacked isixhwala seNkosi, uMzikayifani (Mzikayifani, the Lord's invalid), in reference to some unfortunate physically disabled soul who'd been bitten.By the time she had disappeared around the corner, at least 40 people knew about the dog attack.Some 15 minutes later, a fellow coming from the direction in which the unofficial Reuters correspondent had disappeared stopped to regale us with tales of a pack of 30 rabid dogs which had decapitated and then eaten "an invalid". Just like the story of the loaves and fishes, the dogs had multiplied and the severity of the injuries had reached the decapitation stage.A bunch of school boys walked past animatedly describing how a certain Mr Mokoena was so passionate about teaching biology that you start smelling the ocean, and how he had read excerpts from Zakes Mda's The Whale Caller during class to help them appreciate the whales. As I drove towards my sterile suburb later, I was slightly intoxicated with nostalgia and hankering after a glorious past.At the exit from the township, a pimped Polo GTI in front of me came to a dead stop and with screeching tyres executed a death-defying 180 turn, halting oncoming traffic before heading in the opposite direction, accompanied by cheering and whistling. And that's when I was cured of my kasie nostalgia.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo