1. BRIGHT AND SHORTThe latest salon treatment buzz word is Olaplex: the name of a product that helps repair hair bonds broken by colour treatments, while drastically lifting hair colour without damaging it. The two-part treatment starts with the addition of Olaplex Bond Multiplier to bleach or hair dye. Once the colour has been rinsed out, Olaplex Bond Perfector is left on hair for at least five minutes and then washed out. The treatment leaves hair feeling strong and smooth for weeks. Visit Tanaz or Olaplex for more info.And if you're looking for a bolder change, Carlton Hair director and master stylist David Gillson says: "Sugar pink, mint green and violet grey are the new hot and trendy hair colours taking over the runways from Chanel to Dior. Model Soo Joo Park is the poster girl for this look." Tip: when bleaching hair, make sure it's a bit oily to protect your scalp from any burning. Beauty buys to try: Tigi Bed Head Dumb Blonde Toning Protection Spray, R305, contains protein to support hair fibre and heat protectants and toners to combat brassiness. Redken Colour Rebel, R485, is like a felt-tipped pen that deposits a fine, coloured microcoat on hair. Resistant against water and brushing, it's a great quick fix and lasts for up to two washes. Colours include red, coral, bright purple, fuchsia pink and gold. Davines Alchemic Conditioner in Red, Copper and Silver, R305 each, are pigmented to boost and freshen hair colour. Trendy makeup looks to copy from the catwalk2. CUSTOM WIGSL'Or al PR co-ordinator Athi Myataza says: "A great option for warmer weather, wigs allow you to keep your hair in better condition, as you can take it off when you sleep and washing it is easy." When heat styling, avoid tongs, because excess heat will burn synthetic fibre.Beauty buys to try: Paul Mitchell Marula Oil Rare Oil Treatment, R595, nourishes hair. Visit bouncehair.co.za for naturally textured wigs and extensions.3. GIRL MEETS BOY"This trend is all about androgyny and breaking down gender barriers. The boys are borrowing their girlfriends' styling products, while girls are opting for more masculine short crops," says Carlton Hair's director David Gillson. Beauty buys to try: Davines More Inside This is a Volume Boosting Mousse, R265. A lightweight mousse that adds bounce and volume to a blow-out and works well for a retro comb-over style. Davines Essential OI Oil, R240, adds major shine and controls frizz. Davines More Inside This is a Strong Dry Wax, R330, for a mussed-up texture.12 women who rock the hell out of natural hair4. DITCH THE SHAMPOOTry co-washing as a gentle, sulphate-free way to clean hair. Theperfecthair.co.za founder Taryn Gill says: "This method is ideal for most dry and curly hair. Using a co-wash product means the formulation of the product is more or less that of a conditioner and in some cases contains ingredients, such as behentrimonium chloride, to assist in gentle cleansing, making it milder than sulphate-free shampoo."Hair benefits include softening, increased hydration and better manageability. But watch out for product build-up, Gill warns. Use a clarifying shampoo once a month and co-wash twice in one session. Beauty buys to try: Mizani True Textures Cleansing Conditioner, R167. A creamy, low-lather, sulphate-free and mild conditioner that is ideal for co-washing. The Perfect Cowash, R150, is infused with coconut oils, locally sourced mongongo, marula and Kalahari melon seed oils, and grapeseed oil, to aid hair growth. Find these products in the brand's new retail space, which opens this week at the Work Shop Newtown, Joburg. Kevin Murphy Maxi.Wash Detox Shampoo, R350, has alpha-hydroxy acids to exfoliate dead skin and remove product build-up on the scalp. K rastase Chronologiste Revitalizing Exfoliating Care, R640, contains granules that gently exfoliate the scalp before shampooing.