I therefore always look forward to school prize-giving ceremonies. The part where they call them up to the front and my chest swells up like that of a cockerel that is about to give some unsuspecting hen the best two seconds of her life.But that's where the fun ends because unfortunately they also allow dozens of other parents to attend. That's when these gatherings degenerate into orgies of forced socialisation with a bunch of cliquey bores. It is incredible how as soon as parents enter their kids' school premises they start mimicking their offspring's behaviour. So you can imagine that I had mixed emotions about the whole thing; excitement about the little man's academic achievements but also a dread of mingling with the clique mongers. There's a direct link between coolness & dumbnessTo avoid ending up squashed against one of the hall pillars, I arrived a good 40 minutes before proceedings commenced. I spotted prime real estate in the pound seats of the first three rows and hurried in that direction only to be told, each time I tried to sit down: "Sorry, these five seats are taken." After about the third time of being told the same thing, I started feeling like Forrest Gump on that first school bus ride. One woman had even gone to the extraordinary lengths of reserving seven seats for her posse by using her handbag, camera bag, scarves, mobile phone pouches and any contents of her bag short of a battery operated device. In fact, there were more bags than bums on seats in the "ringside" closest to the stage.Fortunately, just like Forrest on that school bus, I was rescued by my own "Jenny" in the form of a woman who had empty seats on either side of her. She shifted and placed a bag in the seat between us, whispering in conspiratorial tones, "I'm keeping this seat for my hubby. He's running late."About 10 minutes later I spotted a man the size of a buffalo calf wearing a leopard-print blanket with tassels draped around his shoulders and a sombrero on his head. Okay, so it wasn't a blanket but some kind of poncho - a poncho made from sufficient material to make a duvet cover for a single bed. He was so huge that there was a partial eclipse of the sun when he walked past the windows. I almost whispered to the woman, "I see we have WWE wrestlers in the house". Thank heavens I decided to keep my insensitive, juvenile joke to myself as he took the seat next to mine and I realised he was the "hubby".At this point I must clarify that I say "the seat next to mine" in loose terms because about 25% of his girth couldn't fit into his own chair and spilled over to my chair, almost knocking me off my perch. It was such a tight squeeze that I involuntarily did my best Leaning Tower of Pisa impression towards the twitchy granny with humbug breath on my left. She giggled nervously as my face encroached on the socially unacceptable invisible 45cm radius of personal space.I must pause here to point out that if it sounds like I'm picking on a guy because of his weight, I'm not. Heck, as my own metabolism has progressively slowed down while I slide deeper into my 40s, so too has my transformation into a short-necked boar progressed rapidly. So consider this a friendly argy bargy between pig and buffalo.Anyway, what made the situation even more uncomfortable is that the buffalo calf in a leopard skin must have cojones the size of a watermelon because he sat with his two baobab trunks spread wide open, leaving me with no leg room to call my own. And he was loudly chomping on chewing gum.And then it got worse because he wouldn't stop talking to me. "If I was in charge of this prize-giving, I'd ban all these wannabe photographers." I wanted to retort, "I'd personally enforce the one chair per person" rule but decided it would be rude. And what made his utterance more awkward is that I, too, had every intention of taking pictures of my big-headed midget receiving his awards. And no leopard was going to detract me. Is it ever excusable to pee in a coffee mug?So I decided to ignore him and turn my attention to the Peroxide Clique in front of me. They were discussing how they would sooner withdraw their kids from the school than have them be assigned to Mrs D*****'s class because "she's such a [rude word that rhymes with 'itch']". I've personally had one of my kids in Mrs D*****'s class and found her to be the friendliest, most accessible teacher ever so I'm not sure what the Peroxides were on about. Somewhere behind me, the Jock Clique was murmuring something about the criteria for "Sportsman of the Year" award not being transparent and whatnot.Finally, the actual prize-giving started. This is when the penny dropped why the giant leopard in a sombrero was against pictures. As it turns out, his kid was only getting an award for "Steady progress in all academic areas" or some such thing, which I think means "He was also here". I wanted to go up to the leopard cub, give him a hug and console him, "It's not your fault, little man. From what I've witnessed here today, your DNA might be of dubious quality." Don't be silly, that wouldn't be a mean thing to say. For their own psychological health, children need to learn that not everything is their fault.After the ceremony there was the obligatory stampede to get to the complimentary cocktail sausages, samoosas and Oros. By the time I came out the Jock Clique had managed to secure more prime real estate around the sausages, where they were firing a salvo of "I knew the Best Cricketer Award was rigged". I staggered outside, physically and emotionally exhausted, and vowed that at next year's cliquey orgy I will organise myself some skunk scent extract and smear it all over myself to ensure a healthy clearing around me.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo