To all the cool people reading this, I spit on you. Let me preface the next few hundred words by making a bold declaration: there is a direct and positive correlation between coolness and dumbness. There, I said it. "Cool" is nothing more than stupidity by another name. As for the misguided souls who like to repeat slogans such as "Geekiness is the new cool," I say to you, put the ganja down and step away from it. You don't believe me? Read on.In the movie True Romance, written by Quentin Tarantino, the character played by Patricia Arquette has a monologue which ends with the words, "And all I could think of was, 'You're so cool,'" in reference to her drug-dealer husband who had just survived a ferocious shootout with another hardened drug dealer, losing an eye in the process. I remember watching this flick in the early '90s and thinking to myself that if selling drugs and getting shot in the eye made one cool, then I didn't want any part of this coolness business. In the age of mass cool, a niche is hard to reachAnd there are many, significantly less dramatic prerequisites to achieving coolness that I want no part of. Many cool people consider buckling up when driving to be an uncool habit of dorks. I have a friend I like to call Satellite Dish on account of his disproportionately large auditory appendages. He is the epitome of cool as evidenced by his snazzy vehicles. Some years ago he bought a VW Golf TSI. He had adopted this habit of pulling his seat belt, buckling it, and then stretching it over the seat so he could drive unbuckled without the annoying beep that the foolish manufacturers install to remind you to buckle up. Smart, hey?So we're leaving Meadowlands one Friday evening when he pulls this stunt. It's apparently extremely difficult to buckle up and look cool at the same time. And most cool people in snazzy vehicles like to tilt the seat all the way back and lie low so that all you can see are two arms and a pair of Prada sunglasses, with the sound of Black Coffee pumping from the Bose stereo.Anyway, I decided to give him stick for not buckling up. I nagged him for a full five minutes before he stopped the car and fastened the seat belt, going, "Jeez! You're more annoying than that beep." Hardly two minutes later, a Corolla went through a red traffic light and our Golf went flying through the air. The only injuries we suffered were a small cut on Satellite Dish's head and, in my case, sore ribs where the seat belt had restrained me. The other fellow sadly died on the scene. He had not been buckled up. Geekdom 1: Coolness 0.Another friend startled me during a trip from Empangeni to Pietermaritzburg last year. He volunteered to drive my car and then kept complaining that my lights weren't bright enough. As a result, he kept straddling the barrier line. Where I sat, everything was as bright as daylight. Finally he admitted, " I failed an eye test. I should be wearing glasses but glasses just make one look like i-barrie ." I-barrie is township lingo for a moegoe or a mampara. That's correct, a man in his 40s, with a university degree, would rather crash a car and perish in a pool of his own blood, orphaning two children in the process, because wearing glasses would make him look like a dork. I didn't know whether to laugh or cry.The list of things that cool people do that make no sense to me is endless. For instance, cool people wear their jeans really low, exposing their underwear. (See: Lil' Wayne, rapper.) I can think of nothing dumber than walking around with an exposed rump or, in the case of G-string aficionados, an exposed ashy bum with the string disappearing into a Grand Canyon. I don't think it's an accident either that successful people who ascend to the highest offices in the land wear their pants really high. Surely we've all noticed how high the president and the vice-president wear their pants? Ditto Barack Obama. As for Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi, I'm talking exceptionally high. I think there's a positive correlation between the height of one's trouser waist and one's leadership qualities. You say pap, I say paprikaSpeaking of leadership, I hope we've all noticed how we have never had a president who hails from cool places such as Soweto, Umlazi or Sandton. No, siree. I think we can all agree that the presidency is the exclusive reserve of country bumpkins who hail from uncool rural places in the butt crack of the world like Mvezo, Mbewuleni and Nkandla. I cannot think of anything more uncool than walking up to a hottie at a varsity party and going, "Hi, my name is Sbhodongo Mhlongo and I'm from Kwamhlabuyalingana near the Mozambique border."And speaking of leadership and success, I think we can also all agree that next to the word "geek" in the dictionary should be pictures of Bill Gates, Warren Buffett and Mark Zuckerberg. And because I'm raising kids, I'm forever drilling this into their heads. Boo if you want, but I'm doing my damndest to raise dorks who value reading over cool activities such as skateboarding all over the show with plumbers' cracks. And that's why I'm forever going on about how cool people go to nightclubs to put the sturdiness of their eardrums to the test to the magnitude of 200db and how smart people place more value on quality conversations, which is why they prefer quieter places.I have two friends who wear their nerdy badge with honour just like I do: Blazza Ngobese and Nomo Khumalo. We love to point out that most nerds don't know that they're nerds, and how we're a special brand of geek; the consciously nerdy type. People like us should stick together and be proud.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo