When did you first discover your 'green fingers' could help grow your bank balance, too?When I wrote my first book, Jane's Delicious Garden, and it shot onto the bestseller list. I realised that I could earn money from my passion. Plus every time I see just how much a bag of rocket sells for in the supermarket when it grows like a weed in my garden.What did your childhood teach you about money?My father taught me from a young age that hard work earns rewards. I had Saturday morning and holiday jobs in my teens. My parents also encouraged me to be creative, and this has helped me be innovative. Ashley Dowds on balancing fun with being frugalHow responsible are you with money?I love a good bargain and will double down and buy two or three of something if I find a really great deal. I can buy impulsively, but it is usually from places I trust.How did you develop a love for gardening?After spending a year in the US in the mid '90s I was missing the different chillies I had been cooking with there. In South Africa at the time, all I could find were hot green or hot red ones. I realised that if I wanted the habaneros, pasillas, serranos and jalape os I would have to grow them - though I had never grown anything before. So I started. And I became hooked on the simple and rewarding process and began to grow more and more of my own food.What would you buy if you won the jackpot?I would invest half and spend the rest travelling to all the places I haven't been to yet.When was the last time you were impulsive with money, and what did you splurge on?When visiting Greyton recently, I spotted a gorgeous sculpture of a Siamese cat curled up on a cushion in the window of an art gallery. The shop was closed but I rang the number on the door. The owner came and opened up and I took the cat home with me.Do you prefer to buy fruit and vegetables or eat from your garden?Oh, most definitely from my own garden! I know 100% there are no pesticides and they have been grown in healthy, fertile soil. There is something so incredibly rewarding and grounding about eating a meal where you know the origin of every single ingredient.If you were not a garden fundi what else would you be doing?Painting and travelling. Fame is fine, but my kids can't eat it - Thembisa MdodaWhat is your top tip for keeping a healthy garden in drought conditions?Mulch, mulch and more mulch. This keeps the moisture in and improves the quality of the soil, helping it retain more water.If you wrote another book, what would you focus on?I would love to combine my passion for travelling and growing organic vegetables and write a book which features beautiful and productive vegetable gardens from around the world.How large do you go when spending on gifts, or do you prefer to pick something out of your garden as a gift?I love giving gifts from my garden - but I don't just pick something. I make jam, jellies and pesto or use herbs to make soap, hangover tea or a moisturising face balm. This way I am giving the gift of my time as well.What is the best investment you have made?Trusting my gut instinct that if something feels right for me then it is. I wrote my first book without having a publishing contract. I just believed I needed to share the information I had gathered over the years. I have been rewarded many times over for investing months of my time and energy into something I simply trusted would come to fruition.