Challenge 1: Powdery mildewThere are many commercial applications for remedying powdery mildew, one of the most common and well-recognised plant diseases. Home remedies include bicarb solutions, vinegar mixtures and even milk. Pests such as aphids, which can be treated with an organic garlic mixture, often accompany powdery mildew. How to create a thriving organic gardenChallenge 2: Sagging plantsDrooping foliage is indicative of a stressed-out plant either it is not getting enough water or is planted in the wrong spot. Ensure that you water in the evening to cool the plants down, and give supplementary water on very hot days. Avoid fast-release fertilisers that encourage quick new growth. Slow-release will encourage stronger new growth over longer periods, which will be less susceptible to summertime stressors.Challenge 3: Wear and tearNovember is a great time for lawn dressing. Apply ample, good-quality lawn dressing to your lawn, focusing on any low spots or ditches. Thick layers of lawn dressing should be avoided in high-traffic areas, as the grass underneath may be suffocated. A good slow-release fertiliser (7:1:3) can be applied to boost blade growth. Apply lawn seed according to light conditions in very damaged areas. Mix seed with a little lawn dressing before sprinkling, to avoid dropping all of the seeds in one patch. And remember to water thoroughly after feeding/fertilising.Challenge 4: Over/under-wateringDepending on where you live, your garden could be flooded or scorched, so remember to water accordingly. Sandy soils allow for run-off, but so do clay soils you can remedy this by supplementing soil with lots of organic matter, and watering deeply and infrequently (two to three times a week, 20 minutes per session). This encourages strong root growth. To avoid overnight root rot, water in the morning.Challenge 5: Lawn careA general rule for mowing is never to cut more than a third of the height of the grass. Cutting often encourages the grass to spread horizontally (rather than grow upwards), resulting in a thick, strong carpet of lawn. In shady areas, allow the grass to grow slightly longer (4cm to 5cm) and keep it at that length the more foliage, the better the absorption of light. TOP TIPS: Always make sure your lawnmower blade is sharp and clean. Dirty mowers spread weeds such as clover, and can be detrimental to the health of the lawn. Sharp mower blades make for a cleaner cut and healthier-looking lawn. Trim edges (with shears or a Weed Eater), and remove weeds before mowing. This makes cleanup time quicker, as the mower sucks everything up. Use leaves and grass cuttings to make compost. All green waste from cooking can be used as well (except for onion, garlic, etc). Don t be nervous about cutting back perennials; this will encourage new growth. Deadhead flowers often. Mulch and compost frequently. Compost will provide valuable nutrients to the plants, and mulch will keep the moisture in. A good layer of both will be very beneficial to the health of your garden.