VOLUME LOSSAs we age, we lose fat in our cheeks. Lines, commonly known as laugh lines, also start appearing around the mouth and "marionette" lines develop around the chin. Even though skin can remain smooth, taut and wrinkle-free in certain areas of the face, the loss of volume can make people look older.Injectable fillers such as Restylane are an effective option if volume loss is a concern. Aesthetic practitioner Dr Melanie Lambrechts says: "Fillers can cost between R2,500 and R4,500 per area and tend to last from six to 18 months, depending on the type used. It's important to go to an experienced injector of fillers to make sure you get an excellent result with no side effects."To find out more about injectable fillers, book a consultation with aesthetic practitioners such as the Laserderm, Skinrenewal or Centre of Wellness. Beauty buys to try: Eucerin Volume-Filler Serum Concentrate, R330, contains three active ingredients: magnolol, which increases the number and size of volume-giving cells; ogliopeptides, which stimulate collagen renewal, and hyaluronic acid, which encourages the skin's ability to retain water. Eucerin Volume-Filler Day Care for Dry Skin, R320; Eucerin Volume-Filler Night Care, R320, and Eucerin Volume-Filler Eye Care, R250, can be used in conjunction with the serum concentrate for the best results.Beat the clock: 5 anti-ageing ingredients that actually workENLARGED PORES AND UNEVEN SKIN TEXTUREA common concern for many, uneven skin texture and enlarged pores can make skin appear dull and tired. As we get older, the rate at which new skin cells regenerate decreases. Exfoliating regularly can boost this process, showcasing fresh cells and improving overall texture. Beauty buys to try: Maybelline Baby Skin Instant Pore Eraser, R90. A cosmetic fix that temporarily smooths skin texture and ensures that makeup stays put. QMS Medicosmetics Classic Set, R2,490 for three 50ml bottles. The trio of products improves skin texture and reduces volume loss. To prepare skin, use the Exfoliant Fluid, which contains fruit acids to dissolve bonds between skin cells. Then, on top, apply the Day Collagen cream, which contains antioxidants, or the Night Collagen cream, which penetrates skin deeply and harnesses moisture. Our guest editor, Mathahle Stofile, is a big fan. Available from QMSMedicosmetics: qmsmedicosmetics.co.za. Environ Intensive Avance DFP 312 Cream, R970, contains antioxidants and improves skin texture and elasticity over time.ADULT ACNESpots that pop up around your chin or jaw are usually hormonal. Treat the cause first and then the symptoms, with spot-busting formulae that contain ingredients such as salicylic acid. Beauty buys to try: Vichy Normaderm Beautifying Anti-Blemish Care 24H Hydration, R279, helps combat shine, inflammation and blemishes. Dermalogica Overnight Clearing Gel, R690, contains tea tree oil and stops spots dead in their tracks, before they become painful and inflamed.PIGMENTATIONDermatologist Dr Ncoza Dlova says: "The presence of more melanin in dark skins is photoprotective, thereby reducing and delaying signs of ageing, such as wrinkles. By virtue of having more melanin, black skin has an innate natural SPF of 15, which plays a significant role in delaying ageing."However, pigmentation spots are still a concern and grow when exposed to the sun. "People with dark skin also have to wear a broad-spectrum sunscreen, which will reduce pigmentation problems. There's a common misconception that dark skin doesn't need sunscreen - this is not true." Dr Lambrechts adds: "Sunblock for life is the one treatment that you need to commit to before you can expect pigmentation to improve. Without this barrier, pigmentation will simply return." 7 common beauty myths busted Beauty buys to try: Bioderma Photoderm M SPF50+, R210. Brand new from the range, this tinted sunscreen has been specially designed to protect skin prone to melasma (hormonal pigmentation). Skinceuticals Advanced Pigment Corrector, R1,777. Pricey, but one of the best we've tried. In addition to combating existing spots, the corrector prevents skin from forming new discolouration spots when it is used regularly.