What made you decide to change the branding and packaging of CH Men Priv ?Carolina Herrera: Each fragrance has its target market, female and male, and the Priv man is a bit different from the CH man. He is more New York and cosmopolitan, sort of like the James Bond. That's why we used black and gold - it's more sleek and urban than the other [fragrances].</img>CH Men Priv EDT, R845 for 50ml and R1,090 for 100ml, is a seductive, rich and sensual scent with accords including whisky and leather. Image: SuppliedCH Men Priv EDT, R845 for 50ml and R1,090 for 100ml, is a seductive, rich and sensual scent with accords including whisky and leather. Image: SuppliedCarolina Herrera, as a brand, collaborated with Mario Testino on the CH Men Priv campaign. Have you worked with him a lot in the past?CH: Yes, but this was the first time he also handled campaign communication for Carolina Herrera fashion and CH perfume, so he took the helm of visuals and PR. He's amazing, has a great eye and understands Carolina Herrera. He's known my mother [Carolina Herrera] since the beginning of both their careers. It's easy to work with someone like that. You know the result will be amazing.How closely do you work with a perfumer when developing scents?CH: Camille Latron is our in-house perfumer for Puig [the company that develops Carolina Herrera fragrances]. We also use noses and perfumers outside the company and work hand in hand to develop the fragrance. Camille needs to know what we're thinking, who the target market is, who is the man and who is the woman, and what the bottle is going to look like. When we start developing either the visual or the perfume, there are guidelines - is it going to be oriental or floral - and then they develop their magic. They're like cooks, and then they have to interpret our guidelines knowing what mixes well and what's in vogue. There's a lot to take into account. Once the noses come back with proposals, we work together very closely because proposals change year after year; there are tests and retests. There isn't just a final thing, there might be five versions of it and then we work on those over time. Guilt-free indulgences: 15 beauty buys inspired by tasty treatsWhich stage of creating a fragrance is your favourite?CH: I love the beginning, the creative part when it's a blank slate and we're thinking about the packaging, the smell, the bottle, who it's going to be for and where they live. Then it's very satisfying to see the final product and think of all the changes it's gone through. When it's a new fragrance [the process] usually takes up to two years. When it's the partner [of an existing fragrance], it can take a year or less as you already have the identity of the target market.Do you layer scents?CH: I do, I layer everything. I'm not very faithful, I'm very adventurous. I may even layer men's and women's fragrances or an oil with a perfume or just an oil or a cream. Smells are what you want to smell like that day, it's what you want to portray. I don't just love one smell, I have many that I like, so it depends. When I travel I usually take just one - whatever is smallest and easiest. I don't have rules. I don't have a summer fragrance or a night or day fragrance. Once you find a scent you like, you should wear it.