One morning he is walking past the Gumedes, where the missus of the house is basking in the sun in a skimpy dress. So he stops, takes out his handkerchief to wipe his brow before remarking: "Awu, aze amahle amathanga akho Mam' uGumede!" (Lovely pumpkins you have there, Mrs Gumede). Musings about misheard lyrics Later that evening Bab' uCele is outside his house watering the flowerbed when a visibly enraged Mr Gumede shows up brandishing a sjambok, demanding to know what kind of man compliments another man's wife's thighs. You see, the Zulu word amathanga has two meanings; pumpkins and thighs. So, to escape a whipping, Bab' uCele had to explain to Gumede that while his wife's thighs had been exposed and looked enticing that morning, he had been referring to the pumpkins the Gumedes had placed on their roof to speed the ripening process; a common practice in the township.Most of us have been victims of this phenomenon of misunderstanding what people are saying. We proceed to totally embarrass ourselves and make ourselves look like downright tjops.A few months ago I witnessed a Facebook exchange between my friend and author of London, Cape Town, Joburg, Zukiswa Wanner, and one of her fans. Zuks had just responded to a message from another friend of ours, Azad Essa, and addressed him as "Zuma's bastard". It prompted a passionate, angry rant from the fan. Why did Zukiswa hate President Jacob Zuma so much? Why was she so obsessed with bringing him down? And why had she invoked his name and called him a bastard when the topic of discussion clearly had nothing to do with the president? I gasped and scrolled up to the message before spurting out my red wine through my nostrils. The infuriated fan had totally missed the trick.Essa is a journalist with the Daily Vox and since his first book, Zuma's Bastard, was published, Zukiswa has referred to him as "Zuma's bastard". If I told you the livid fan was immediately persuaded by this explanation, I would be lying through my short teeth.Another classic example of a person having the point totally elude them occurred during my student days, circa 1990. I was a member of the Catholic Student Association (Casa), a black offshoot of the mostly white National Catholic Federation of Students (NCFS). During my time, the two organisations were in earnest negotiations to merge back into one national Catholic student body, a feat achieved in 1993 with the birth of a united Association of Catholics Students (ACTS). It was predictably not an easy process.Norms, values and attitudes on both sides had calcified over the two decades or so that Catholic students had been split down racial lines. Each side felt there was an attempt to assimilate them from the other side. During one heated plenary session it emerged that the white Catholics felt the black Catholics were not, how does one say this, religious enough in general and definitely not Catholic enough in particular and, more to the point, that Casa, the black body, was nothing more than a political front for the ANC. All hell broke loose. Pun is intended.Everything in South Africa is political, was the battle cry from my benches. Then stop pretending to be Catholics and go join MK was the retort from the other side. Just like the Codesa negotiations at some point, our own attempt at unity was on the brink of falling down like dominoes.Patrick, then president of the NCFS, got up to try to douse the flames. He spoke at length about the need for cool heads before proposing we all adjourn to calm down. Then he inadvertently threw diesel into the flames by saying: "I also suggest that the steering committee made up of both organisations meet after supper to play around with a few ideas." Forget wiper blades, here's what street vendors should be sellingMy president, Victor, got up in a blind rage. Play around? This is serious business, he yelled. We didn't sacrifice our December holidays to spend a week in Hammanskraal to "play around". I must have worn the same expression on my face that I often see on the faces in the IFP benches in the National Assembly when Inkosi Buthelezi goes off on tangents and bursts into song during debates.I wanted to say: "Excuse me, my honourable president, he didn't mean actual playing around. It is just an expression."But I knew better than to give the impression I was ceding any ground to the opposite side. So I sat there, wincing and grinning.My favourite case of misplaced anger was on the Redi Tlhabi Show on Talk Radio 702. She was busy having a discussion about Joburg City plans to control informal traders in the CBD. At the time it was a hot topic because many interest groups and NGOs felt the city was being heavy-handed in its dealings with street hawkers. An audibly upset caller came on the line to berate everyone, especially Tlhabi, for giving the impression that street hawking was an exclusively Venda problem. "People from all language groups are plying their trade on the streets of Joburg. Why are Vendas singled out?"Tlhabi did her best to explain that people were using the words "street hawkers" and "street vendors" interchangeably throughout the discussion, but the fellow was too far gone in his outrage to listen. If I had been that caller, when the penny dropped Tlhabi would have heard a click signalling my exit from South Africa as I surreptitiously relocated to Alaska.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo