1. THE SCENTFor the ultimate in Bond-style scents, try this newbie from the franchise called 007 Seven Intense. Top notes include tangerine, bergamot and crisp apple. Cinnamon, saffron and white pepper are the heart and then there's seductive amber, vanilla and sexy musk in the base. We adore the black, diagonal, multifaceted bottle, too. 007 Seven Intense EDP, R495 for 50ml, R645 for 75ml and R935 for 125ml from Clicks, Dischem, Edgars, Markham's Red Square, Stuttafords and Truworths.2. THE SHAVING CREAMFreshly shaven is the order of the day when you're a suave secret agent. This exotic Crabtree &amp; Evelyn West Indian Lime Shave Cream, R400, is ideal for the closest shave and the scent reminds us of the Jamaican beach scenes in Dr. No. Following in James Bond's footsteps in Jamaica3. THE 3-IN-1 WASHAn undercover agent doesn't have time for a lengthy shower routine, which makes this time-saving 3-in-1 hair, body and facial cleanser ideal. Kiehl's Cross Terrain All-in One Wash, R285, includes soothing aloe vera and menthol vitamin E and citrus oil to invigorate. And, because it doesn't contain Sodium Lauryl Sulphate or Sodium Laureth Sulphate, it's not drying on skin.4. THE POST SHAVE PRODUCTBumps may be encountered on the road while manoeuvring an Aston Martin, but never on necks and chins. Kiehl's Ultimate Man Razor Bump Relief, R425, helps with ingrown hairs, razor burn and bumps.Monica Bellucci smashes the Bond-girl age ceiling in 'Spectre'5. THE EYE SERUMSaving the world means a spy doesn't always get eight hours of sleep, but that's not to day he's got to worry about dark circles, puffy eyes and wrinkles. This extremely luxurious eye cream called Guerlain Abeille Royale Gold Eye Tech Eye Sculpt Serum, R1,595 contains a special ingredient called "Grand Cru" honey, which yields royal jelly, reminiscent of both the movies Golden Eye and Casino Royale.6. THE SHAVING TOOLSForget a dinky plastic razor, a Cut Throat Shavette, R350 from The Bluebeards Revenge, gets a hardcore secret agent stamp of approval. Pair it with The Bluebeards Revenge Doubloon Shaving Brush, R215, which ensures the creamiest lather, and you're all set for a close shave.6 reasons Idris Elba would make a kick-ass James Bond7. THE BODY WASHBecause why wouldn't you use charcoal to cleanse? Nivea Men Active Clean Shower Gel, R45, is also a three-in-one that smells minty fresh. Charcoal is well known for its dirt-attracting properties.