St Elmo s potential is vast when considering the sheer size of the property. The property consists of 9,501m2 of various buildings of colonial-style architecture, situated on a footprint of about 7,96 ha. The property has its own exclusive beach access with approximately 400 meters of beach-front on the Indian Ocean, says Brad Dowlman of In2assests. We spoke to Rainer Stenzhorn, Marketing Director of In2assets more about the upcoming auction.How did the property come to be on auction?The seller has realised that on an auction platform will reach a much wider market due to the extensive marketing of the property auction house. Since this property is empty and custom built it is also difficult to determine a real value. This will be achieved with a public auction. The highest bidder will decide what the market effectively is prepared to pay which in return will set a new value on the property.Multimillion-rand water park set to boost Scottburgh's property pricesAs mentioned, St Elmo s has great potential to be renovated or rejuvenated . Who would be the ideal buyer?We have been dealing with interested parties from around the country which includes hotel operators, private schools, resort developers, retirement funds, as well as private individuals. The massive amount of building under roof will lend itself to a holiday resort in my view but until the auction is over this is all speculation. The nice thing is that the local Hibiscus Municipality have given a written undertaking that they will support any development that helps to boost the local economy.How would the auction and renovation of St Elmo s affect the neighbouring areas?There should be no negative impact whatsoever to the local community. The prospective purchasers that we have been dealing with so far have solely the intention to redevelop. Any redevelopment will have to go through town planning approval which will make sure that all future development does cover the heritage status of the buildings, the economic interests of the community and fits into the spatial development scheme of the area. The key to the sale is also to prevent this cultural heritage site from destruction by vandalism, and the influences of the elements. The convent originally had to close down over 10 years ago due to the cut of financial support by the government.Private viewing of the property before the auction date can be arranged by appointment. The auction takes place on 12 November 2015, at 11am, at the Durban Country Club. For more information contact Rainer Stenzhorn, marketing director of In2assets, at rstenzhorn@in2assets.com This article was originally published in Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Durban. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.