Red cabbage is a little colour-confused as its leaves grow more red in acid soils and more purple in neutral soils. When cooked both are inclined to turn blue, unless you add acidity to retain the colour. If you are going to cook it instead of using it in salads, it is best braised, not boiled.Sliced thinly, you can braise it with butter or olive oil, salt and black pepper for a family supper. For high days and holidays you can add apple, bacon, herbs and spices such as fennel, caraway, chilli or juniper berries in myriad ways. For summer, it makes a great coleslaw with grated apple, or mix it with al-dente beetroot cut into julienne strips.Here are three ways to use red cabbage - raw, cooked and in the middle.1. RED SALADServes 6 In a screw top jar, combine 85ml ( cup) cranberry juice with 30ml (2 tbsp) white wine vinegar, 5ml (1 tsp) Dijon mustard, 30ml (2 tbsp) runny honey, 85ml (1/3 cup) olive oil, 1 finely sliced red onion, a large pinch of salt and a few grinds of black pepper. Shake well. In a salad bowl or on a platter combine the leaves of 1 red oak leaf lettuce or radicchio, 1 small red cabbage, finely shredded, 1-2 large red apples, cored and sliced (skin on), the juice of 1 lemon, seeds of 1 pomegranate, 1 punnet raspberries (or strawberries or cherries), a handful of dried cranberries, and a handful of pecan nuts, roughly chopped. Pour over the dressing, toss and serve. 3 recipes that'll entice you to eat more cabbage2. ORIENTAL BRAISED RED CABBAGEServes 8 In a large pan or wok with a lid, combine 1 large, finely shredded red cabbage with 3 chopped green chillies, a peeled and grated knob of fresh root ginger, 4 star anise, 4 chopped garlic cloves, 75ml rice wine vinegar, 30ml (2 tbsp) soy sauce and 45ml (3 tbsp) caster sugar. Cook over a low heat for 25-30 minutes, stirring regularly, until all the liquid has evaporated and the cabbage is slightly glazed. Mix in 4 finely sliced spring onions and serve sprinkled with 15ml (1 tbsp) sesame oil and a few spoonfuls of toasted sesame seeds.3. WILTED RED CABBAGE SALADServes 6 Cut out the core of 1 large red cabbage and slice the cabbage into julienne strips. Place in a bowl and cover with boiling water. Place a heavy plate or dish on top of the cabbage and press down, being careful not to burn yourself, for 1-2 minutes. Drain the cabbage well and toss with 250ml (1 cup) lemon juice, 15ml (1 tbsp) fresh thyme (leaves only), 2 bay leaves and salt and pepper to taste. Refrigerate overnight for flavours to infuse. Remove bay leaves and serve chilled.