It was 1984 and Buthelezi had just joined the ground staff at the Wanderers Club, and part of their extended responsibilities were to ensure the green mamba on the other side of Corlett Drive responded to the charms of Clive Rice and Co.Buthelezi, who hails from Msinga in rural KwaZulu-Natal, joined the employ of the Gauteng Cricket Board (GCB) in 1997. This week the 51-year-old officially became the head groundsman at the Wanderers. It is not quite a tale of herdboy to head boy but the road is as arduous in that in his line of work respect is slowly earned but instantly lost.Buthelezi takes over from long-time groundsman Chris Scott, who will stay on as a consultant this season.The new man in charge recalled how he was approached to join the GCB: "They said 'you know your job' and asked me to join in 1997. In my first month, which was September, they sent me to Cape Town to do a course. I stayed there for two weeks and spent time with Andy Atkinson, who was based at Newlands before he came here. Chris had moved to Willowmoore Park for three years and that is when Andy came here."Chris came back in 1999 and said 'Bethwell, I'm happy you are here'. I was happy that he came back and we've worked together since. We've worked as a team."You don't have to remind Buthelezi of the esteem in which the Wanderers pitch is held. Its green mamba reputation has been banished to the long grass and the batters find it entirely free of menace."At the Wanderers we have many records," said Buthelezi with a wide grin."The World Cup final in 2003, the 438 [against Australia] and 439 [against the West Indies] games. There is pressure but I'm not scared because it is my job."I don't have to change much and will do the same as Chris. I want to go to a new level. I don't want to go down." The father of six resides in Soweto but home is in KZN."I've got two boys and four girls. The first-born is 27," he said before confessing he had not told them he was getting a promotion. To be fair though, the ink was still drying on his new contract.Scott, the widely respected pitch guru, will be around to help Buthelezi to get "into the run of things"."He is already familiar with the run of things," Scott said matter of factly. "For him I think it's a case of been there, done that, got the T-shirt. He has worked with me for nearly 20 years. I have spent the last three years doing my level best to get him up to speed with everything so that he can take over. It is my heartfelt desire that he can make a success of this."He has the physical know-ledge of how to do this. His biggest drawback is possibly his scholastic background, but his training has been on the job."