That, however, is not entirely why he collaborated with former Hampshire teammate Andrew Murtagh on a book chronicling his life story.Sundial In The Shade is in part about a batting virtuoso shackled to a dimly lit stage, but it is also about the perspective life's vicissitudes have brought Richards since he penned his first book.The death of his son Mark by his own hand in 2009 shook Richards to the core, and although he wasn't looking to write another book, Murtagh's approach got him thinking. Series win fitting farewell for Misbah"He suffered from depression as my boy did," said Richards of the author this week."I found it quite therapeutic. The book in some ways could be quite a sad book. I would hate people to go away with that. It was just a reflection. It is a much more mature book."Asked in the book whether he was "happy", Richards said: "I shall never get over what happened to Mark. I don't think anyone could get over that. That tragedy remains with you for the rest of your life. So, no, I can't say that I am happy. That is a state of mind beyond me now. But I am content."Even before his son's death Richards was often described as bitter. His test career ended as it started. He became South African cricket's poster boy for a lost generation at a time when the overwhelming majority of the country's population had no prospect of earning a test cap, let alone add a fifth.Now endowed with perspective, Richards reflects on his curtailed test career as "a disappointment"."I think bitter is a bit strong," he said this week. "Disappointed is better. I sort of understand why that is."When you're younger and a bit more brash I suppose you probably portray a picture that you're bitter. You can't be bitter with the life I've had."This one (the book) is about the ups and downs. I would hate people to think that I had a shit life. There have been a few disappointing aspects and there has been one tragedy, but I had a fulfilled life." The book touches on his relationship with local cricket authorities and broadcasters, after marvellously tracking his playing career. Calling on personal experience, the author vividly describes a Hampshire net session in which he was spellbound as teammate Andy Roberts went full tilt at a belligerent Richards. "The following 15 minutes remained the most riveting piece of theatre I have ever witnessed on a cricket ground. And it was only a net practice!"Though arguably the most technically proficient and stylistically gifted batsman of his generation, Richards had a penchant for the unconventional.That is perhaps why some observers have drawn parallels between him and AB de Villiers. It's a question you sense to which Richards would rather shoulder arms."Some," he said frowning. "AB's inventive. He looks for opportunities to hit boundaries. He won't hit the shot that is orthodox if it is only going to produce one. He will look for something else that will produce more. I can see a lot of that in the way I played because I tried to manufacture. He's got his own style, however, and he is certainly the best player of this generation."