In 1880, a practical pedant called James AH Murray tried to get the Philological Society's attention (ahem) by suggesting we drop the unmanageable words "onomatopoeia" and "onomatopoetic" in favour of "echoism" and "echoic", which he claimed were more accurate.His suggestion went down with a splat, possibly because the society feared his next move might be to replace "philologers" with "students of language". Making a dentFor the purposes of this column, however, I am adopting Murray's synonym for onomatopoeia, because "echoism" is shorter and will allow me to fit in more words. Also because "echoism" has a lovely lilt to it, whereas "onomatopoeia" sounds like a fast-talking advocate trying to bamboozle a judge.Comic strips are full of echoism. Without a lightning-edged balloon screaming "Blam!", "Zap!" or "Pow!", we'd never know how hard Batman hits. Without a "Kaboom!" we'd be deaf to the sound of Calvin's exploding science experiment, and without a "gulp" we'd have no idea how fast Garfield eats.In an essay published on the OxfordWords blog, Jean Pierre de Rosnay explored the language of comics and discovered that some sound effects predate the strip-form funnies. "Bam" was used to echoic effect in James Joyce's Ulysses in 1922, "pow" in an 1881 issue of illustrated magazine Scribner's Monthly, and "ka-boom" in Eugene Field's Slug 14, a doggerel poem, published in 1876, about an incompetent typesetter.Leaving echoism aside, cartoonists have given us a biff-bang-boom bunch of everyday words and phrases. (And if you asked me to define an everyday word versus the other sort, I'd have to say "lunch" versus "onomatopoeia".)Charles Schulz's comic strip Peanuts - the animated film version of which will be on big screens in December - first appeared in US newspapers on October 2 1950. Charlie Brown, the strip's antihero, defined the underdog. His beagle Snoopy, who slept on the roof of his kennel, was more of an overdog.Schulz did not coin the term "underdog", but from his creations we get "security blanket" - which originally referred to the actual blanket carried around by the existential Linus - and "fussbudget", which was associated with Linus's crabby sister Lucy. (For an extra point, their surname was Van Pelt and their baby brother was called Rerun.) Like math to a flameWe also have a comic strip to thank for the succinct portmanteau word "newlyweds". In the early 1900s, George McManus's The Newlyweds and Their Baby (starring Mr and Mrs Newlywed) was a popular section of New York's World newspaper. Without McManus we would still be calling newlyweds "that couple who just got married".There are others. "Brainiac" is from a villain in the Superman comics, "worry wart" is from a character in the 1950s comic strip Out Our Way by JR Williams, and "keep up with the Joneses" is from the title of a 1913 strip by Arthur R Momand.Many think "jeep" was slang for GP, the general-purpose vehicle developed by the US military in the 1940s, but the word was influenced by Eugene the Jeep, who made his first appearance in 1936 in Thrimble Theater, the comic strip by Popeye creator EC Segar.Eugene was a stuffed animal (a bit like Hobbes, except with spots and an enormous nose) who could say only one word: "jeep".If Eugene had been a bird, his jeeping might have been (since we have space) onomatopoetic.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1