Mrs N watched the PVRed episode before I'd had the chance and then insisted that I just had to watch that snippet because it was "right up your alley, Baby". God, I love the fact that I have become so predictable.When the video surfaced, Bance was extremely remorseful and went to great lengths to stress the fact that the incident did not reflect who he really is inside. When I heard that, I couldn't help but nod in agreement with him because whatever had been inside him had been expelled into that coffee mug.It would be remiss not to acknowledge that this prompted myriad questions, the most obvious being just what is the capacity of this man's bladder that he needed to make wee-wee tiny enough to fit in a coffee mug. Don't ask me how I know this, but I know for a fact that when I'm really, really desperately pressed, I can fill three-and-a-half 330ml beer bottles. (OK, it's a long story involving a boys' road trip to Port Elizabeth).Also, Bance decanted the cup that had runneth over with his waters into the kitchen sink before opening the tap to rinse the mug. I give him half a credit for that because some hapless soul might have ended up drinking some pretty alkaline coffee. But if there was water supply, why didn't he just go to the toilet like regular people? And the last question that came to mind is whether he gave the client a discount out of guilt because, by my reckoning, anything less than 25% off makes this Bance fellow a true rectal orifice. There's a direct link between coolness & dumbnessHowever, if you're sitting there in harsh judgment of Bance, he of the bladder the size of a gnat's spleen, shame on you. I say this because we've all done shameful things when that particular aspect of our physiology has caught us off guard. I cannot count the number of times I have seen men park their cars on the side of the N3 between Villiers and Warden in order to do their bit for the nitrogen cycle.One time I was driving on the same N3, between Mooi River and Estcourt just before dusk, when I came upon the sight of a fleshy derriere mooning the Joburg-bound traffic. I have called the owner of said pair of giant dumplings "Mrs Moonsamy" since I started sharing the story because she was holding on to one of the most garish saris I have ever seen in my life. But even then, I did not judge Mrs Moonsamy because, hey, sometimes you just have to go when you have to go.Another time, while stuck in traffic on the M1 South between the Empire and Smit offramps for more than one-and-a-half hours, I witnessed a woman in a nurse's uniform stagger out of her Renault Clio like a drunk madwoman before simply dropping her navy blue pants and squatting right there and then with no regard for the 30-plus pairs of eyes staring incredulously at the scene of capitulation to Mother Nature's call.While other drivers were throwing daggers of judgment at her, I felt nothing but empathy for her plight. I even rolled down my window and yelled at her, "Sisi, next time just open both doors on the left and squat between them!"She got up and gave me a weak thumbs-up signal with the same expression on her face as Tom Hanks during that famous marathon piss in the movie The Green Mile.The "squat between the two doors" trick is one I was taught by an ex-girlfriend who had consumed five Savanna Drys during a road trip from Durban to Cape Town some years back. It is a strategy I wish more men would adopt when they absolutely have to go because, as King Vumezitha, son of the Tembe, is my witness, no one wants to see anybody's wrinkled, shrivelled-up gherkins on the side of the road while driving.But I must confess that the real reason I sorta, kinda felt for the Canadian mug-whizzer is that I've been in a situation where I almost pulled the same stunt during my corporate days. I was inadvertently locked inside my open-plan office in Boksburg by a colleague who locked the main door when he left, around 6.30pm, assuming everyone else had also gone home. But I was so engrossed in my task of creating the perfect Excel spreadsheet that I didn't hear him leave.To say that the 90 minutes or so I spent waiting for rescue were excruciatingly painful is a bit like saying the captain of the Titanic was a little perturbed when he realised the "unsinkable" vessel was going down. Take me home! But only till I'm gatvolI think human-anatomy experts are wrong when they draw the human body without a special duct that transfers urine from the bladder to the brain when the former organ overflows. It is impossible to have any other thought than "I gotta pee" when pressed.It is only after I had written out a sign reading "These mugs are contaminated. Please desist from using them" for the benefit of my colleagues that the obvious solution became clear to me. The freaking waste-paper basket! Never have I been so happy to see a waste-paper basket. But I have never used communal coffee mugs from an office without rinsing them thoroughly first.The last word must go to an ex-friend of mine. While stuck in traffic in downtown Durban on a Friday afternoon, we witnessed a guy weaving through the cars like a total penis head, even climbing the pavement and endangering pedestrians' lives. I expressed my outrage. My friend simply shrugged and went: "Maybe he needs to go desperately."E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo