1) PAK CHOI &amp; PRAWN STIR-FRYServes 4 Heat 30ml (2 tbsp) sunflower or peanut oil in a wok or large frying pan over high heat. Add 1 finely chopped onion, 2 cloves of crushed garlic, a 2cm piece of fresh ginger (peeled and grated) and 1 red chilli (seeded and chopped). Stir-fry for 2-3 minutes. Add 500g queen prawns, deveined and shelled (you can leave the end tail bit on) and cook for another couple of minutes, stirring all the time until prawns have changed colour. Add 250g washed and roughly chopped pak choi. Add 45ml (3 tbsp) oyster sauce and 45ml (3 tbsp) water and stir-fry for another 2 minutes. Serve over egg noodles or rice.2) CARROT &amp; PAK CHOI SALAD Serves 4 Peel and grate 1 large carrot and combine with 125ml ( cup) bean sprouts, 1 small red pepper (cored and chopped), 1 red or green baby cabbage (finely sliced) and 200g pak choy (washed, leaves separated and dried). Toss to mix well and place on a serving platter. For the dressing, combine 60ml (4 tbsp) fresh lime or lemon juice, 1 red chilli (seeded and finely sliced on the diagonal), 15ml (1 tbsp) fish sauce, 15ml (1 tbsp) brown sugar and 5ml (1 tsp) sesame oil. Mix together and allow to stand for 5 minutes. Pour the dressing over the salad and finish off with a handful of roughly chopped toasted peanuts.15 easy Asian recipes that make the most of far-flung flavours 3) GRIDDLED PAK CHOI WITH HONEY &amp; SESAME SEED DRIZZLE Serves 4 Rinse 400g whole pak choi and dry. Using a sharp knife, cut the pak choi in half lengthways. Combine 30ml (2 tbsp) olive oil, 1 clove of finely chopped garlic and salt and freshly ground black pepper. Brush the cut side of the pak choi halves with the oil mixture. Place the pak choi, cut-side-down, in the hot griddle pan, pressing down with a spatula. When lightly browned carefully turn and cook on the other side. While cooking, combine 30ml (2 tbsp) runny honey, 5ml (1 tsp) soy sauce, 1 small red chilli (optional, seeded and sliced) and 5ml (1 tsp) lightly toasted sesame seeds. Place pak choi on serving dish, drizzle over the honey/soy mixture and serve.