Being cool used to be difficult. I offer my teen self as evidence. Teenage me was fixated on being cool - I wouldn't admit it to myself, but it was the main thing going on with me. Right music, right clothes, right books, right documentaries, right picture above my bed. My hair was the only significant demerit (fluffy and too much of it). My hair, in fact, was so rubbish that it is a testament to how cool I was that I overcame it.I was very cool, and it was very difficult. It took up all my time. The internet was sort of inchoate, then - there were no websites which aggregated all the possible ways there are to be cool in this world. No Tumblr with pictures of sport-goths and weird-looking birds. The internet, when I was a teenager, didn't really assist much in Project Cool. I had to go out and take it for myself, dammit. I had to read all these old issues of The Face, and i-D, and look at so many pictures of Lou Reed. I had to become conversant with the entire Wu Tang Clan back catalogue. I still know all the raps. There's a direct link between coolness & dumbnessIt feels like it's so much easier, now. The internet in 2015 is basically a lot of porn and racism, and very clear instructions on how to develop and maintain cool. This is what it feels like to turn 30, friends. On the plus side, however, is the fact that it's harder now than it ever was to be outstandingly cool. The internet has made it easy to attain the basics, but nearly impossible to get to the next level. Everyone saw that sport-goth picture. Everyone saw that weird bird. How are you going to distinguish yourself, hmm?This applies nowhere more strongly than in the case of music and books. No more of this whipping out the name of an obscure German lady novelist as a means of impressing your friends and relations. Everyone read that same Buzzfeed article "TOP 10 UNDERRATED GERMAN LADY NOVELISTS." No more of this rare copy of a dead old blues guitarist's one song, recorded in a decaying farmhouse in Natchez, Mississippi. That song is on YouTube now, and has twomillion likes.You need to really go for it, is what I am saying. There are still niches out there waiting to be carved, but they are harder to find, and often there is a smirking guy wearing a different kind of hat who got there before you. Facility with a variety of languages would help, I think. A pioneering spirit would be good as well. You need to go out there and find new ways of being secretive and snobbish about stuff, and then you need to write a Buzzfeed article where you tell us how it's done.