Does everyday life inspire the notes and fragrances you create?I think in the world of creation everything around you will inspire you to get new ideas. A good example is fragrances that are influenced by food. There's currently a big trend around gin and tonic as an accord; it's very interesting to see how the different smells are being mixed.Nature is also inspiring, especially for floral notes. Last year I had the chance to go to Guadeloupe where I discovered a flower that I'd never seen before that has a lovely smell. I thought what a pity you can take a picture of the flower, but you can't take a picture of its smell. I tried to remember the scent and reproduce it when I got back to the lab. What goes into to creating Carolina Herrera's designer fragrancesWhat inspired the new CH Men Priv fragrance?We had two inspirations for this perfume: whisky and leather. The whisky accord, which is very masculine, gives that sparkling fresh note on the top of the perfume. The leather note is very sensual and we mixed in patchouli, tonka bean and sandalwood to create a seductive and elegant fragrance.What is your favourite note to work with? Is there one in particular or do you have many?It's very difficult to say because [as a nose] I can't have a very strong signature; I have adapt the perfumes I create to suit each brand. That said, I love to work with wood as I think woody notes are interesting and narcotic. I also like to work with patchouli for the feminine notes and sandalwood or vetiver for the masculine notes as they give a lot of richness and sensuality to a fragrance.How long does it take to become a 'nose'?It's a very long journey; I trained for 10-15 years to become a perfumer. You also have to continue to train your nose everyday. I begin each day by doing a blind test of five scents to exercise my olfactive memory. This is very important in perfumery; you have to train your brain to know smells and how to combine them well to improve your creativity. You also have to train your nose not to get tired - I think I smell about 200 odours per a day!