The number I'm interested in today is six. Although not as nullified as nought, zilch and nada, six has had to endure cruelty and neglect. Why, for instance, did Enid Blyton write books about The Famous Five and The Secret Seven, but ignore six altogether?I'm guessing it was because six was considered a beastly number, particularly when it came in threes, and Blyton didn't think a series about The Sinister Six would sell to her Noddy-loving audience."Sinister", incidentally, comes from Latin for "on the left". If a crime were committed in the Roman army, more suspicion would fall on unlucky left-handed legionaries than on those in the right-handed ranks.</img> Image: Image: But back to six, which can be lucky when cast with a die but is more frequently associated with the depth of graves and the number of rounds in the chamber of a revolver. Six-shooters tend to put people six feet under - unless they have the sixth sense, and anyone who has seen M Night Shyamalan's film would not want that thrust upon them.Mathematicians might call it even, but six is an odd number with which to become obsessed. American writer Larry Smith, however, is a six fiend. He runs the Six-Word Memoir project, which began as a reader contest in Smith magazine but turned into a global forum in which people try to tell their life stories in just six words.Here are some choice examples: "Former child star seeks love, employment" (one-time model Justin Taylor); "Couldn't cope so I wrote songs" (singer Aimee Mann); "Yes, you can edit this biography" (Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales).I have struggled to compose a definitive six-word sentence to describe my life. I think the closest I've come is "Complained about language to no effect". I look forward to six-word submissions by readers on how pedantry might prevail.If Smith's followers (who number a lot more than 666) are anything to go by, six is making a comeback. This month, Smith published a book called The Best Advice in Six Words.He had to come up with a six-word title to prove his faith in his chosen number, but he made up for it by adding the verbose qualifying subtitle: Writers Famous and Obscure on Love, Sex, Money, Friendship, Family, Work and Much More. Just in case you thought it was a book of six-word homilies on how to win at poker ("When in doubt, fold, fold, fold"), or how to stop your hedgehog from hibernating ("Hedgehogs do not make good pets"). Cartoonists have given us a biff-bangboom bunch of everyday wordsIn an article for the Observer, Smith chose some "nuggets" (his word, not mine) from the book that he thought deserved awards. These included "Don't set your brother on fire" from author Jodi Picoult; "Your phone does not love you" from journalist Scott Alexander; "Post-adolescent? Stop blaming your parents" from actress Molly Ringwald, and "Don't put that in your mouth" from Morgan Spurlock, director of Super Size Me.If you ask me, the prize should go to novelist Elizabeth Gilbert, whose six words of advice were "Chances are your editor is right".Two six-word comments occurred to me while writing the previous paragraph. One is: "Poor nuggets. Once gold. Now chicken." The other is: "No one ever listens to advice".Incidentally, The Best Advice in Six Words is Smith's seventh book. Perhaps he should take five words of advice from poker players and stop while he is ahead.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follower her on Twitter @deGrootS1