1. COMPOST IS KINGSandy soil leaches water, while soil with lots of compost dug into in it holds water for longer. Save money by making your own compost. Start with a green bin in your kitchen for all your organic waste from egg shells to veggie peels. Create a compost heap in your garden or buy a compost bin.2. MUCH MORE MULCHMulching your garden beds by spreading a layer of organic material on top of the soil will reduce the amount of water that s lost through evaporation.Stop thinking of manicured gardens, think forest floor. Acid-loving plants like hydrangeas and azaleas love pine needles, so collect them in a park. Bark chips, dry leaves and lawn clippings can also be used as mulch, if they don t go into the compost. How to conquer five common summer gardening challenges3. COVER THE GROUNDAgain, exposed soil increases moisture loss, so use groundcovers to keep it cool. Yes you ll need to water these plants, but you ll likely use less water than would otherwise be lost through evaporation.4. WATER AT NIGHTThis is not sneaky, it s common sense. If you water your garden during the hottest parts of the day a lot of the moisture will be lost through evaporation. If you do it after 6pm, the water will have a chance to be to penetrate the soil and be absorbed by plants.5. WATER BY HANDYou can save a lot of water by using a hand-held hose and not a sprinkler. Focus on the plants that really need it and those that you cannot afford to lose. Tougher plants will bounce back when it rains.6. DEEPLY DOES ITIt's best to water seldom but well and let the water soak in deeply. This especially applies to trees and shrubs. A regular light sprinkling achieves very little, and wastes the water.7. GO GREYIf gravity allows it, you can divert bathwater from a plumbing elbow outside, and lead it into the garden or a tub. The authorities don t really like this idea as waste water dilutes sewage, but not everyone can do it or be bothered to. Don t use greasy and high-soapy water from the kitchen. And no, not sewage! New garden? 5 important things to consider before you get growing8. PLANT FOR DROUGHTYou can t get rid of plants you have and love, but when buying new ones look in the "Waterwise Plants" section in your nursery, to find plants that demand less water.Many are our indigenous plants, or at least plants that are endemic to your part of the country.Others come from abroad, such and many succulents. Even the common bougainvillea flowers best when dry it comes from Mexico after all.9. POTTY TRAININGPlants in pots are especially hard to keep alive in a heatwave or drought, as they tend to dry out daily. Give up on pretty annuals for a season and plant succulents instead. Add water-retaining granules to your potting soil and mulch pots the well, even with small stones.10. HARVEST RAINWATERSadly, many modern homes do not have gutters but if yours does use it to divert rainwater into a storage tank. A rainwater tank may cost a bit, but it'll help you save money on your water bill.If you can t tuck the tank away, hang pots with drought-hardy plants around it to disguise it.