Sometimes I was a woman, Candy, a bonkbuster babe. I didn't have hair, I had tresses. I got hundreds of replies, which was a surprise because the picture of a celebrity, amateur fauxtershopped by me, looked like a combination of Sarah Palin and a placenta.Adultery site Ashley Madison insists it's not shutting downMost of the women who replied didn't look human, let alone fake. They were dressed as if for a Eurovision contest and were shaped like old fridges. And why were they on AM when everyone knows the best way to get a man is to pull two World Cup soccer tickets from your push-up bra?Sometimes I went as a man, Carl, a Norwegian yachtsman, not in his first spring, faded denim and a houseboat on the Nile. That went viral.Most replies were anonymous, mostly hetero-flexible with a touch of early onset dyslexia. "I love sayling and dansing." Their avatars were childish: godlike, ibitehard, edgeofthebed and shortsonfire.Dr Eve, a sex therapist with a shop selling sex toys, writes on her website: "Ashley Madison is a transparent dating site that states its intentions." Is she kidding? The whole site lacks any sustaining frame of true existence.I was anonymous and God knows I might be talking to Dr Eve herself, with her shiny nacreous mother of pearl surface and deep understanding of vaginal moisturisers.My feeling that most of the site is underpinned by fakery is endorsed by researcher Annalee Newitz, who writes on Gizmodo: "Fake accounts were overwhelmingly female, and numbered in the tens of thousands."It might have been a bit of cheap fun, if its deceptions weren't so mutilating. Women do not pay but you have to pay to leave the site, which is why I am still on it.After AM was recently hacked I started getting blackmailing emails. Their tone was that of a masturbating teenager with acne and had a weird disapproving, you-dirty-girl undertone, no doubt encouraging this activity."I would like to tell you I have the information about your online affairs and cheatings and have located all your social networking and dating website profiles and I am going to send messages to all of your friends and family members and work colleagues." It's easier to be cool in the digital ageThey were asking for between one and 10 Bitcoins (one Bitcoin costs about R4,540) to keep it private."What we demand is non-negotiable and you might ruin your life if you decide to ignore this email."They threatened damage to my credit score (good luck with Nedbank) and alleged they had my "sex tape, which would be embarrassing when you meet your family face to face".Good God, I never meet my family face to face. We meet foot to shin.As frustration set in, they got down and dirty."Hey asshole, That night you f***ed me like a pig, and now I am f***ing pregnant, thanks to you asshole!!!"Surely, this could only be from a 15- year-old who hasn't quite worked out the biology of reproduction.They thought they'd hit pay dirt; instead they sounded like real squirts.In any case I'm saving for Prophet Mboro to bless my private parts.