KZN FASHION COUNCIL SHOWCASING RICH COUTURE AND NICOLE HOYER DESIGNSCopper and rose-gold tinted eyes offset berry-red lips beautifully. A tip to remember: prime eyelids before applying eyeshadow to make the colour pop, which is especially useful for metallics.Get the look: Bioderma Sensibio Mask, R200. A gentle mask to soothe tired, irritable skin. Use 10 minutes before makeup application. Smashbox Brow Tech Highlight Stick in Bronze Shimmer, R280, for definition below brow bones and on inner corners of eyelids. Clarins Joli Rouge Lipstick in Royal Plum, R265. A berry shade with a creamy texture. Rimmel Magnif'Eyes Mono Eyeshadow in Bronze, R70. A rich shade with great pigment payoff.WAKETo complement the prints and illustrations, skin was kept subtle and clean. And show hairstylist Karen van Wyngaard says of her work: "We wanted to embrace the girls' natural texture, whatever their hair type." For some of the models, crimpers were used for major texture and then hair was braided with a few wispy strands left loose.Get the look Tigi Bed Head Oh Bee Hive!, R305, gives great grip and volume. Kevin Murphy Smooth.Again Anti-frizz Treatment, R450, helps tame unruly strands. Rimmel Stay Matte Liquid Mousse Foundation, R130, for a velvet finish. Tigi Bed Head Stick, R305, is ideal for shorter hair to ensure your hairstyle stays put. Rimmel Fix &amp; Protect Makeup Primer, R100, evens skin texture and helps prolong foundation wear. Rimmel ScandalEyes Eyeshadow Stick in Bulletproof Beige, R95, adds a light luminosity to brow bones. Rimmel 24HR Supercurler Mascara in Black, R120, curls lashes for up to a day. SUN GODDESSDefined eyebrows are the fastest way to make your face look groomed, which is why those at Sun Goddess caught our eye for inspiration. We love the stylised, '20s-inspired look.Get the look: Rimmel Brow This Way Brow Sculpting Kit, R85. Use the wax for shaping and then layer the powder to set the look. Elizabeth Arden Prevage Clinical Lash + Brow Enhancing Serum, R760, has a special formula that encourages hair growth. 