According to COO of Hatfield City Improvement District, Danie Basson, the decision taken by the owners of Hatfield Square was aimed at providing accommodation, as there is a huge demand for residence in the Hatfield area.Respublica Student Living Property Fund and Redefine Properties will lead this new development in a joint venture. The aim is to provide an ecosystem for living and learning that is clean, modern and conducive to promoting academic success for its student communities. This new area will include residences, leisure and retail facilities.Loftus Park: The Blue Bulls new upmarket neighbourAccording to the executive director of development at Redefine Properties, Mike Ruttell, executive director of development, Redefine Properties, says the new development will be ready for occupation by the end of 2017. He is confident that the square will then be the social hub of Hatfield once again.Craig McMurray, CEO, of Respublica, says the redevelopers will be working hard to make Hatfield Square even more of a student hub for another 2,200 students in the coming years. Sensitive to the role of Hatfield Square in Pretoria s student lifestyle, the original square will be retained for public enjoyment. While meeting the needs of students will be the main focus in this precinct, it will also provide a rejuvenated public space.The community will enjoy a social meeting place that offers convenience stores, coffee shops and restaurants. The new residences will also include the following: a weekly cleaning service, a canteen, a rooftop gym with a running track, computer rooms, games rooms, a swimming pool, laundry and study spaces. They will offer access to Wi-Fi, with one GB per student per month included.Room options will include: Single rooms Single rooms with en-suite bathroom and a kitchenette Shared rooms Cluster rooms with two dedicated bathrooms and a shared kitchen Post- grad rooms with en-suite bathroom, kitchenette and dining areaAnother new Respublica student residence to take notice of is Eastwood Village in Arcadia Street, which and will open launch early in 2016 with applications are already open. This article was originally published in Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property &amp; lifestyle guides. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.