POACH EGGS IN A JIFFYHow to poach an egg in the microwave in three simple steps:1) Fill a deep heatproof container (glass is good) three-quarters with water. Microwave on high to bring the water to the boil, then add a pinch of salt and 15ml white vinegar.2) Break an egg into a cup and use a toothpick to pierce the yolk so it won t burst. Drop the egg into the boiling water.3) Microwave on high for 1 minute for a super soft egg; increase the cooking time if you prefer it less runny. Remove with a slotted spoon and enjoy.Tip: You can cook up to 4 eggs in the same container. 3 eggcellent breakfast recipesCRISPY MICROWAVE BACONThought you couldn t crisp up bacon in the microwave? Think again! Here s how:1) Turn a large glass bowl upside down and spray it with cooking spray.2) Drape rashers of bacon over the bowl without overlapping the base.3) Place a piece of paper towel in the microwave and stand the bowl on it to catch the fat. Microwave for 2-4 minutes depending on the thickness and cut of the bacon. Tip: Dip each bacon rasher into a mixture of crushed pecan nuts and sticky brown sugar before cooking for a taste sensation.</img>Eggs Benedict makes for a sophisticated breakfast. Image: ThinkstockEggs Benedict makes for a sophisticated breakfast. Image: ThinkstockEASY EGGS BENEDICTFancy giving those microwaved poached eggs (instructions above) a gourmet touch? Make Eggs Benedict using this simple, no-fail Hollandaise sauce recipe:1) Microwave 125g butter (not margarine) on high so it s not completely melted. This will take about 20 seconds; 40 seconds if the butter s straight out of the fridge.2) Whisk together 3 extra large egg yolks and 20ml lemon juice. Add to the butter and whisk again; allow the mixture to stand for 1 minute.3) Microwave the mixture on medium for a total of 30-45 seconds. Microwave it in 15 second bursts, stopping to whisk it well in-between. Remove it from the microwave, whisk it again and season generously.4) To assemble your Eggs Benedict, top a toasted English muffin, or piece of white toast, with a slice of ham or crispy bacon (see tips above) and a poached egg. Finish it off with a generous spoonful of Hollandaise sauce and a sprig of parsley, thyme or rosemary. How to cook eggs perfectly, any way, every timeCORNY HANGOVER CUREHad a night on the town? This Mexican sweetcorn, with a good dose of chilli and strong cheese, will cure any hangover. Here s how to make it:1) Rinse some sweetcorn and, without drying it, roll each cob in a paper towel. Place on the turntable and microwave on high for 5-7 minutes till just tender. Remove and set aside.2) Combine thick quality mayonnaise with 5ml chilli flakes and spread over the slightly cooled corn, then roll each cob in grated mature cheddar cheese. Serve with a pile of serviettes.</img>Tomato stuffed with cheese. Image: ThinkstockTomato stuffed with cheese. Image: ThinkstockPESTO &amp; CHEESE STUFFED TOMATOESMake a tasty vegetarian breakfast in 3 simple steps:1) Using a sharp knife cut a thick slice off the top of firm red tomatoes. Score the skin of each tomato and, using a spoon, scoop out about half of the flesh. Turn the tomatoes upside on a piece of paper towel and leave to drain for 5 minutes.2) Season the inside of the tomatoes with salt and pepper. Place 5ml of basil (or any) pesto into each tomato and top it with a thick slice of soft goat s cheese (or some ricotta) and a pinch of dried Italian herbs.3) Place in a glass dish and microwave on high for 5-7 minutes, depending on the size of the tomatoes.