I was born in India and chose to be a chef as my dad was working in the industry. I started working when I was 16. Most of my 30 years of working life have been spent outside India; 23 years in Dubai before moving to the Seychelles.</img>Chef Davinder Rawat. Image: SuppliedChef Davinder Rawat. Image: SuppliedThis is my second visit to South Africa and this visit I participated in the culinary skills exchange programme which is part of The Cape Legends Inter Hotel Challenge. I Skype my family in India every day. At home my wife does all the cooking as I like to feel like the guest - except my son Kapil, 16, insists I make his favourite butter chicken dish served with dhal. My daughter Shafali, 21, always remembers Father's Day. If I'm at home she makes tea for me in the morning.I make a good curry, especially in the Seychelles with the vast array of seafood. When I cook for myself, vegetables are my favourite. Although Indian food is always better made in India. Fish Curry With Coconut Milk Serves 6Ingredients:60-90ml (4-6 tbsp) vegetable oil1 large onion, finely chopped3-4 cinnamon leaves, optional20ml (4 tsp) crushed garlic20ml (4 tsp) freshly grated ginger5ml (1 tsp) saffron threads (or turmeric)Asha's Spice Box: Fish in fenugreek sauce15-20ml (3-4 tsp) medium-strength curry powder5ml (1 tsp) finely chopped red chilli2 slim, young aubergines, diced1kg firm white-fleshed fish, sliced into pieces2,5ml ( tsp) sea salt3 ripe tomatoes, peeled and chopped5 curry leaves250m (1 cup) coconut milk8-10 sprigs fresh coriander, choppedMethod:1) Heat 30ml (2 tbsp) oil in a pan and add the onion, cinnamon leaves, garlic and ginger. Cook for 1 minute and add the saffron, curry powder, chilli and aubergines.2) Add 100 ml water and cook for a further 3 minutes.3) Once the sauce has thickened, add fish with sea salt to taste. Add another 100ml of water and cook for 5 minutes, then add tomatoes and curry leaves.4) Five minutes later, add the coconut milk and allow the sauce to thicken. Spoon onto a plate and sprinkle with chopped coriander. Serve with rice.Chef Rawat was a guest of the Beverly Hills Hotel, Umhlanga Rocks.