So far, so good. My mind is occupied by miscellaneous thoughts such as the fact that I'm wearing a onesie the colour of a child's puke after he polished off a packet of Smarties. It's one of my Father's Day presents and the midgets would have been disappointed if I'd changed before going out. The magogo in front of me, who is in red Methodist regalia, is purchasing a packet of Dunhill Blue. I don't judge. I reckon anyone over the age of 70 should be allowed to pollute their lungs, or any of their organs, for that matter. What Nhleko can teach us about the art of the fire-pool excuseFrom the corner of my eye, I spot a fellow with the face of a bull mastiff, if a bull mastiff could have a face the colour of cooked carrots, hurriedly approaching the front of the queue, slightly out of breath."Oh no, you don't. Not today, Bull Mastiff," I mutter under my breath. He stands next to the customer being served with a nervous, impatient twitch in his right eye. I want to yell at him to join the line but seeing as he hasn't made his move and I don't want to jump the gun, I keep myself on a leash.Let me pause to mention that I live in the deep east, where one is always two sentences away from a full-blown fistfight anytime one steps out in public. I'm not making this up. A few Sundays ago I witnessed two k rels in church suits engage in a bloody battle in the Pick n Pay parking lot while their kids leaned out of their Ford Cortinas shouting, "Donner hom, Pa!"So, as I wait for the guy to cut in, I start psyching myself for the confrontation. I dig into the deepest well of all the righteous indignation I can muster. I conjure up all the injustices that I and all my forefathers combined have had to endure over the centuries. I even summon up an image of a red Ncome River in the aftermath of the Battle of Blood River. And that is when he makes his move."Excuse me there, sir! Are we invisible? There's a queue over here!"I think he had been expecting me to chirp. Within 0.1 seconds the bull mastiff snarls back at me, "Mind your own business, china! See that plastic bag over there, that's my stuff! I just went to fetch money in the car!"As we say in the township: eish saan! I so wish I was in an animated movie because the floor would open up and I'd be able to hide. The Methodist smoking chimney in front of me sniggers and the till operator with three shades of eye shadow throws daggers at me with her eyes. The only comeback I can muster is "Oh", before casting my eyes downwards. I so wish I was in an animated movie because the floor would open up and I'd be able to hide We've all found ourselves outraged at some perceived injustice and been catapulted into a whirlpool of righteous indignation, only to discover that we've got it completely wrong. Let it never be said that Ndumiso Ngcobo never contributed anything to the arts and to culture in general for I have coined a term for this phenomenon.Remember your varsity days, when you were fooling around and your favoured method of contraception was the good ol' "pull out" method a few seconds before the tadpole rush? Yes, coitus interruptus. Well, say hello to what I call "sanctimony interruptus".I grant you that one of the worst feelings in the world is getting that lovely, pre-sneeze feeling that yields no sneeze. But sneeze interruptus does not hold a candle to sanctimony interruptus. I saw a beautiful example on Twitter. Some guy tweeted something along the lines of, "My bitch waits up for me when I'm out drinking." A woman responded with something like, "Really? In 2015 we're still calling women bitches?" Worst fears of a bromance - the dreaded dudevorceAt which point he posted a selfie of himself with his female dachshund: "This is the bitch that was waiting for me." There was no further response but I suspect she went "Oh" internally.You would think I would have learned my lesson when the family went on holiday in December and spent a few nights in Port Elizabeth. When we arrived at the chalet we'd booked, we discovered that they had put us in a studio apartment, basically sharing an open room with the kids. By the time I got hold of the two ladies at reception I had built up more righteous indignation than a DA MP during question time.I spoke to them in that haughty, condescending tone one reserves for a deviant four-year-old. And then they produced the electronic form we'd filled in, proving, without doubt, that it was a mistake on our part. I wanted to say "Oh", but that wouldn't have worked.When I returned to the lodge that afternoon from the beach, I was carrying two gift bags with Ferrero Rocher chocolates and vowing never to be a sanctimonious prick again. Until last Sunday.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo