The SANDF, Sudanese army and UN have all denied there was any military confrontation or hostage drama.Seven sources, including former and current military officials with direct access to soldiers on the ground, said there was a single incident in which a company of heavily armed Sudanese soldiers passed one camp while the Bashir arrest drama unfolded in South Africa. This sparked panic among the troops, who relayed frantic messages to relatives back home that they feared an imminent attack. It's true that our soldiers were threatened by the Sudanese army, but they were never held hostage There are more than 800 troops from 8 SA Infantry battalion stationed at three bases in Sudan's war-torn Darfur region. They were deployed as part of a joint AU and UN peacekeeping mission, known as Unamid, launched in 2007.As peacekeepers mandated to protect civilians, they are heavily outgunned by the Sudanese military stationed in the area. Each camp has four armoured personnel carriers armed with 12.7mm machine guns.The South Africans have clashed with rebels several times in the past five years. Last year, two SANDF soldiers were wounded in an ambush while collecting water near their camp in Kutum. In 2012, one was killed and two wounded when a Unamid convoy they were travelling in was ambushed, and in 2011, four were kidnapped and later released.Military sources reported increased Sudanese army troop movements last weekend while attempts were being made to arrest Bashir in South Africa.A senior government official confirmed this week that South African troops had been indirectly threatened by their Sudanese counterparts, but denied that they had been held hostage pending Bashir's safe passage home. The truth behind Bashir's escape"It's true that our soldiers were threatened by the Sudanese army, but they were never held hostage. What happened is, after the court issued an interim order preventing Bashir from leaving the country, the Sudanese army moved army tankers, guns and soldiers near the South African base. "They were clearly trying to intimidate them, but they never entered their camp or touched them," he said.Several military sources confirmed that a single Sudanese company, which usually comprises 100 to 200 soldiers, "passed by" South Africa's most heavily fortified camp, Kutum.The soldiers were armed with AK47s and 7.62mm light machine guns and rode in troop carriers and Land Cruisers mounted with various weapons, including 12.7mm and 14.5mm heavy machine guns. "No threat was directed towards South Africa," said one military source with direct access to the camp. "Panic started, but there was no confrontation."