1. BEETROOTA colourful addition to both the garden and the table, grated raw, roast whole or quartered, or boiled, to serve hot or cold. Young leaves can also be added to salads.2. BRASSICASThis includes broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower and kale. All these super-nutritious and delicious winter winners actually need cold temperatures to achieve their best flavour. New favourites are black palm kale (the Italian cavolo nero), purple cauliflower and green sprouting broccoli.</img>Rainbow-stemmed Swiss chard. Image: ThinkstockRainbow-stemmed Swiss chard. Image: Thinkstock3. SWISS CHARDThis easy to grow and hugely versatile leaf vegetable can be planted year round. To pick, simply twist off a few outer leaves from each plant they ll keep producing for months. Shred the green parts for steaming, stir-fries, soups and salads; boil the thick, ribbed stems to eat like asparagus. Look for pale green Lucullus , sturdy Fordhook Giant or rainbow-stemmed Bright Lights .4. LETTUCEMost loose-leaf and butter lettuces actually grow better in winter than in summer (they tend to bolt in warm weather). Seed can be sown until the end of May and seedlings can be planted out throughout winter.5. CARROTSCarrots are indispensable for hearty soups, stews and roasts, but freshly pulled from your own garden, you ll want to eat them raw too. And juice them, of course!</img>Kohlrabi. Image: ThinkstockKohlrabi. Image: Thinkstock6. KOHLRABIA great winter vegetable to discover, with a round swollen stem that you can roast, boil, and puree or even eat raw, when thinly sliced. The young leaves can be used in salads or stir-fries.7. BROAD BEANSThe plants are handsome enough for the flower garden and the beans, from baby fingerlings to fat maturity are a gourmet treat, simply boiled with butter and lemon or tossed with snippets of ham or crispy bacon.Remember: if you re gardening in one of SA s colder regions, you need to get in your seed at least a month before the first frosts. Shop for seeds at your local nursery or these websites: soughtafterseedlings.co.za; seedsforafrica.co.za; livingseeds.co.za; organicseed.co.za; thegravelgarden.co.za.