(Words such as please, sorry and thanks don't get out much either, but let's not, as the Americans say, go there.)Other words are not given a moment's peace in which to do their tax returns. Take "shoot", a word that has been working overtime since language first issued forth from the swampy mouths of hominids."Shoot" does not refer only to the emitting of a bullet from a gun. Long before gunpowder was invented, arrows could be shot from bows and balls could be shot at the mouths of goals, or at Sepp Blatter's head.Take a shot in the dark and guess how many idioms and other expressions there are that involve the words "shoot" and "shot". There's no prize at the end of the shooting gallery, because I don't know the answer and I'm not going to hazard a shot at it in case I am shot down in flames for getting it wrong.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerMost of us shoot the breeze every day without realising how often we call the shots. We have mugshots taken for our identity documents. Snapshots have fallen out of common use, except in the figurative sense, but we take screenshots on our electronic devices. We speak of hot shots, big shots and long shots.Some say "shoot" when asking for the unadorned truth. Speakers of South African argot say "shot" instead of thank you. We're always overshooting the mark or staying within earshot. The upshot of all this is that sifting through books to mark all the uses of shot and shoot is enough to give you bloodshot eyes. You might need a shot in the arm before you feel up to reading again."Troubleshoot" is a relatively recent addition to the shooting range. Every manual for every appliance, computer program and dog collar has a chapter on troubleshooting. This annoying word means exactly what it says: to take aim at a sea of troubles and, by superior firepower, end them.There really is no point in including a troubleshooting section in manuals, because no one will ever read it (nor any of the other chapters) but that's no reason why it shouldn't simply be called "help". The Pedant Class: Down with feminismNot all derivations of shoot are as troublesome. "Shoot the moon" is a largely neglected phrase that should be brought out of retirement and pressed back into active service. My friend the Online Etymology Dictionary gives its original meaning as "depart by night with one's goods to escape back rent". Nowadays we'd call that "doing a runner", which doesn't sound nearly as romantic.Shooting the moon is still occasionally used to describe silly dreams, fanciful wishes and unattainable ambitions. "Potshot" has also evolved far beyond its original meaning. A potshot used to mean a missile fired at an animal by someone who wanted to eat said animal (put it in the pot) rather than someone who was shooting for sport. Today, however, a potshot is a synonym for a cheap shot - a mean and unwarranted insult - which is quite the opposite of what it used to be.If some shooting phrases are now shot, others are too much with us. Shot glasses, from which strong liquor is discharged down throats, get their name from the "throw" meaning of shoot (as in to shoot at a basketball net). "Throw-back glass" didn't sound quite right, and "throw-up glass" was worse, so shot glass it is.Lastly, there is the parting shot, which if you want to be fancy you can call a Parthian shot. Long before shot glasses were thought of, when people still took potshots with good intentions, Parthia was a kingdom near Persia, famous for its mounted archers, who could shoot just as straight while retreating as they could when advancing. I'll leave you that to think about until next week.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follower her on Twitter @deGrootS1