Should you find yourself in a situation where someone who is called a two-six is telling another guy how he was trying to play five but was unable to do so, because a bracket did a six while flaunting a seven, you would be forgiven if you did not understand.So the following glossary may help.Two-SixWhile the burbs call them hoodlums, thugs or tsotsis, township lingo has christened the more demanding brethren of our communities two-sixes. These people are notorious for the expropriation of personal belongings at the expense of your safety. A good tip for when being accosted by two-sixes is to develop a case of spinelessness.Having done extensive research on Wikipedia, I haven't found any information on the etymology of the term. Sorry. Sanctimony interruptus: When righteous indignation goes wrongTo Play FiveMy heart is filled with warmth when discussing this particular term. My best friend Nyokes and I were chatting about the role of "playing five" some holy days ago.It is common to hear that some poor gentleman was booted in his reproductive organs after having failed in this role.Playing five is a rigorous process, requiring tact, machismo, comradeship and timely exits.In essence, it is what you do when there are two girls and your mate seeks to profess his undying love for one of them, and you, as the friend, must divert the attentions of the other. Why my people chose to call this playing a five is a mathematical conundrum.A problem arises when the professor realises after a while that he chose the wrong woman, and must now negotiate a switch. Somewhere after "Excuse me, but I believe I would much rather have your friend," the nutcracker is delivered.BracketThis term describes the role of an older brother of a girl: a protector who spends his time hiding in bushes and judiciously dispensing savage beatings to any testosterone-filled would-be brothers-in-law with raging fires in their nether regions.Think Julius Malema killing for Zuma. Then picture Julius as the older brother and Zuma as the girl you're hitting on. (I apologise for the graphic analogy.) The Pedant Class: Shoot's a word that works overtimeSixDoing a six could mean many things, but in this context it means abandoning forward movement and going back after being offended by something or someone.So when someone does a six on you, prepare to make some serious evasive manoeuvres.SevenThink about the shape of the numeral, and your guess is probably correct. A seven is a hand-held contraption capable of organising an impromptu get-together with your maker. This device has been known to spend its days on the hips of those blue-clad masses who have a licence to kill on our behalf.So then, I believe my civic duty is done. We must stop this savage rumour that black people do not work with numbers. We might just pull a six on you while wielding sevens.