This was a quest for non-discrimination in which certain approved words were prescribed while words that might cause offence were sent to the place where bad words go.Hence we have "chairperson" for women who balk at being chairmen, and "partner" for lovers reluctant to be boyfriends or girlfriends. There are other reasons to despise the terms boyfriend and girlfriend, of course, but in this context I'm talking purely about their rejection for sounding too hetero.It is interesting that one can use "hetero" as an abbreviation for heterosexual and not sound like a bigot. You can't do it for "homo". I have written before about the misconceptions and idiocy surrounding the prefix "homo". But am I allowed to say "idiocy"?</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerOn a site called Whatprivilege.com, which is dedicated to eradicating discrimination by weeding out prejudicial words, I found the term "ableism". More research turned up "mentalism" (not the sort where you bend spoons and have seances with your neighbour's dead budgie) and "sanism".Where racism, sexism, ageism and lookism are, respectively, nastiness towards those of other races, women, the elderly and ugly people, "ableism" is discrimination against the disabled.If you refuse to build a wheelchair-friendly ramp at a Gautrain station, you might be said to be "ableist". Along similar lines, "mentalism" and "sanism" are both terms for prejudice against those with mental disabilities.If you call someone a moron, you are a mentalist.I'm all for equality and non-discrimination. You'd have to be a moron not to be. But when the Whatprivilege site lists a raft of words that should be banned and suggests clumsy, anodyne nonsense in their place, it makes me a bit cross.If someone bumps into you because they're not looking where they're going, and you shout, "Are you blind?", you are not being insulting to blind people. You are telling the non-blind person who bumped into you that he is a moron for not looking where he was going. But now, apparently we should avoid both blind and moron. Nor can we say mad, nuts, loony, insane, mental, or crazy. Especially not crazy.I can live without flaky, potty, bananas, bonkers, cuckoo, gaga, loopy and meshuga, but I don't think I could live without crazy. What the PC police don't take into account is that this and many other words for non-conformist have become so entrenched in language that they have both positive and negative connotations."Crazy" originally meant sickly, then "full of cracks" (as in crazy paving). In the 1600s it began to be used to describe someone who behaved a bit differently. But crazy has come a long way from there, and to rewrite our linguistic history without it would be very difficult. The Pedant Class: Smile and the words smile with youFirst we'd have to rename the legendary Native American warrior called Crazy Horse. Unpredictable Horse doesn't sound quite so impressive, but it will have to do.And what about songs? An archive search turned up 89 song titles from the last century that contain the word "crazy". There are probably more. If the anti-ableists have their way, these songs will soon be renamed and re-recorded so as not to offend the crazy. From 1963 we will have Nat King Cole's Those Lazy-Hazy-Confused Days of Summer. From 1974, Paul Simon's Still Slightly Strange After All These Years. No band called Madness will ever have existed.There will be a Queen song from 1980 called Irrational Little Thing Called Love. In 1989 The Fine Young Cannibals will have given us She Drives Me Into A State Where I Am Incapable Of Critical Thinking.And from 2009 we'll have Taylor Swift summing this all up in a song that can no longer be called Crazier, but must be A Little Less Logical.