1. NATURE WINSNaturalistic planting has been a key theme for years at the Chelsea Flower Show, but this year it was more airy, more relaxed - more natural. Some called it shabby-chic, a few plain untidy, but most were utterly charmed. There were, of course, plants in perfect leaf and bloom, but there were also seedheads, leaf litter and twiggy bareness, especially in supernatural designer Dan Pearson's Chatsworth, a slice of the Derbyshire countryside, which won best in show. New garden? 5 important things to consider before you get growingMassive rocks, astutely placed, framed this delicate ripple of wet and wild. In other gardens clipped shrubs, hedges, walls and sculpture provided structure and focus, but what we loved was the use of trees and timber, ornamental as well as practical. A perfect extension of the natural theme, it provided inspiration for every gardener to take home.2. INTO THE WOODSLiving trees, often multistemmed and masterfully pruned to show off their branch patterns, were sculptures in themselves, especially in the exquisite Beauty of Islam garden. In the Chatsworth garden, a spectral hollow trunk made a dramatic focal point; in the Sculptor's Picnic Garden, antler-like oak branches created an atmospheric arbour around a stone-paved area furnished with logs and carved stumps. In other gardens there were retaining walls of split logs, sinuous paths of cedar decking, vertical gardens of recycled pallets, steps made of huge, bark-edged slices of tree trunk and a Japanese-inspired plank bridge across a silver ribbon of water (Pearson again). And there were amazing driftwood sculptures of dragons and horses, and nests of woven willow.3. NATURAL WATERWandering little streams and swimming ponds won out against the formal features that have been a design feature for years.</img>A general view of the Sentebale 'Hope In Vunerability' Garden. Image: Getty Images for Sentebale Chris Jackson A general view of the Sentebale 'Hope In Vunerability' Garden. Image: Getty Images for Sentebale Chris Jackson 4. ORANGEFresh or burnt (not flame) orange was the most fashionable colour, with sunny geums the favourite flowers, often offset with soft purple. And our little orange poppy (Papaver aculeatum), native to Lesotho, made its first Chelsea appearance in Prince Harry's Sentebale garden, along with orange wallflowers.5. IRISESDue for a revival, one of the stars of the show was a display of exquisite old varieties of irises, so graceful compared to the bouncy modern frillies and in delicious muted colours. They were bred in the '40s by artist Sir Cedric Morris, who was also a celebrated gardener.6. VEGGIE VACUUMSurprisingly, there were no vegetables in any of the main gardens, although there were plenty in the indoors displays, including a fabulous array of potatoes of every size and colour. And the garden product of the year went to Agralan's ingenious potato pot with an inner cutaway planter, which enables you to check on growth.For more information and picture galleries of all the gardens and products, visit rhs.org.uk.