Should any of the aggrieved gardeners be in litigious mood, they might try to sue you for malicious damage done to the reputation of the aspidistra and its rootstock, then claim damages for the emotional pain and suffering caused to those who cultivate aspidistras. The Pedant Class: Smile and the words smile with youJournalists need crocodile armour to deal with such unavoidable occasions. No matter how carefully you tiptoe through the tulips, you can't avoid treading on the toes of a garden gnome or two.It is unlikely that a gardener will win a lawsuit accusing a journalist of discrimination for saying that an aspidistra is a peevish excuse for a plant. In other situations, however, writers need to think carefully about voicing such judgmental opinions.In the 1300s, "libel" was simply a formal written statement. By the 1630s, libel had grown dirty and jaded (three centuries of inadequate plumbing will do that to a word) and it began to hang out with unsavoury words such as "defamation".Today we understand libel to be a written statement - whether sent in an e-mail to one person or published in a national newspaper read by millions - that is likely to harm a person's reputation (libel's sister slander is spoken as opposed to written).Some might assume that the statement labelled libellous must be a lie, but the truth is that a statement doesn't necessarily have to be false to be libellous - it just has to be unproven.Fear of libel can make it difficult for a journalist to tell the truth. You might see a person grab a potted aspidistra off someone else's windowsill and run off with it. Thousands might see the same thing and agree with your view of events, but you still can't call the pot-snatcher a thief in print, at least not until he or she has been convicted in court.</img>alligator Image: Piet Grobler alligator Image: Piet Grobler This is where the word "alleged" descends like a deus ex machina to save the fourth estate from imprisonment. You may not call a person a thief, but if a legal case of theft has been brought against him, you may say that he is an alleged thief."Alleged" is the ally of the cautious journalist, but like many other words it is abused and overused. Every newspaper has its own style guide. In ours, the entry for "allege" says: "Use with care. Specify the source of any allegation."In other words, one cannot write, "Jill allegedly pushed Jack down the hill" without saying who did the alleging. The correct version would be something like this: "Farmer Brown, who was watching over the hedge, alleged that Jack fell down the hill after coming into contact with Jill's hands." You can see why so many take the short cut and shove in an "allegedly" without providing the alleger's details.Strictly speaking, the only proper use of "alleged" is when the allegation exists on a criminal charge sheet. But alleged and allegedly are too often used without backup to give the writer an escape clause when muddying someone's reputation. The Pedant Class: Smile and the words smile with youA website called The Vocabula Review provides a steam-venting outlet for enraged word protectors by allowing them to add their pet peeves to a page of Worst Words. Number nine on a list that grows longer every day is "allegedly ". I have to come clean here and add that allegedly is number nine on the list not because it is the ninth-most annoying word but because the list is alphabetical. Anyway, allegedly is defined as "a sloppy word misused by lazy journalists under the false belief it frees them from libel".Its primary function is to protect the rights of the presumed-innocent, but "alleged" has become a protective cloak for the journalist. It saves the clumsy use of "asserted without being proved", but it can sometimes sound ridiculous.In an article for Noozhawk.com, columnist Harris Sherline published a collection of headlines that used the word. My favourite is: "Army Private Arrested After C4 Allegedly Found in Luggage".No journalist wants to risk a libel suit, of course, but I'd allege that the crocodile skin that protects us from the arrows of offended gardeners appears to have worn thin in parts. Which reminds me: one who makes an allegation is known as an alleger. The alternative form of this word, used in the 1680s, was "allegator". Can't think why it never caught on.