A compliment can, or a love letter. Sometimes all it takes is a fine line of poetry or a funny joke to lift the spirits. Above my desk is a cartoon panel in which Calvin is telling Hobbes: "Happiness is not enough. I demand euphoria." I find this both beautiful and funny. It makes me happy.I had a large euphorbia plant on my patio once, but it caused more anxiety than happiness because my cat, whose hobby is climbing, saw this monster as a challenge, and a milky poison leaked from the plant when its fingers broke off, so I sent it to a better home with no cats and more sun, where it was so happy it turned orange.Hobbes and hobbies make me think of Thomas Hobson, who, according to historical sources, ran a horse-rental business in Cambridge in the 1500s. His clients were not allowed to select their mounts, hence the expression, "Hobson's choice", which means no choice at all.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerThe happy hirer haphazardly handed a good horse would have had far more choice when deciding how to describe his good mood. He might have been on cloud nine, in seventh heaven, walking on air, on top of the world or over the moon.Not all forms of happiness are associated with altitude, however. Other comparisons involve clams, sandboys and a man called Larry.Why would an edible mollusc be filled with the joys of spring? One school of thought suggests that clams with half-open shells appear to be smiling broadly, but The Phrase Finder gives the full saying: "happy as a clam at high water". This originated on the coast of New England, where delicious clams are hunted by all manner of predators and can only relax when hidden beneath the waves at high tide.There is of course another side to the story of the beaming bivalves. Those who nab a dozen clams at low tide must be bursting with gastronomic merriment, but that would be a more complicated idiom to construct.So much for "happy as a clam". From the other side of the Atlantic we get "happy as a sandboy". Sandboys were not children who lived on the beach and never did homework. They were men ("boy" was a derogatory diminutive) who in Dickensian times would cart sand to houses, pubs and other places where it was used as an infinitely renewable carpet.On the surface, there did not seem much reason for elation in the lives of sandboys, but so cheerful were these lowly luggers of soil that they gave their name to a phrase that has endured long after the demise of the occupation. The Pedant Class: Shoot's a word that works overtimeThe Phrase Finder suggests that the unlikely contentment of sandboys was due to their imbibing of intoxicating beverages. I don't believe a word of it.Let us turn from chuckling clams and sniggering sandboys. What of the Antipodean term "as happy as Larry"?The first theory about this phrase's origin points the blame at Larry Foley, a 19th-century Australian boxer who never lost a fight. The second, more feasible version is that Larry is short for "larrikin", a Cornish slang word later adopted by Australians and New Zealanders. A larrikin, often used today in reference to rambunctious cricketers, is a happy-go-lucky hooligan.Happy shares a common ancestry with lucky, and there are many cases where the words are interchangeable. If you are happy then you are certainly lucky, but all the luck in the world is not enough to make certain people happy. Look at those punters who win the lottery and never stop complaining about how it has ruined their lives. There's just no pleasing some folks, to quote a larrikin.Others find happiness in the oddest places, teaching us that even in this tunnel of troubles called the world, there is always happiness to be found if you look towards the light. I hope these words have made you happy.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follower her on Twitter @deGrootS1