There are Armenians and Russians and Serbs at the Orthodox Church. Once when I was lighting a candle she had slid next to me and, as if talking of something spectral and needing special attention, said, "Cape Town has no soul."Her face seemed to be made up of layers of dust and then given a final shake down of white power. She often wore old-fashioned two-piece suits, called "costumes" when I was young. And she favoured a poison purple colour. Thanks to Woodstock, I've had lifelong #FOMOLast week, lighting a candle at the entrance beside me, she said urgently, "Do you know medicine? Come with me please. I am asking please."She lived nearby in Salt River within a dangerous choreography of cars and roads. The house was pretty but outside an old man without legs sat in a nest of rags under a hot red Coca-Cola sign.She lived in two rooms. She opened the door by lifting it off its hinges: no longer frail. There was rosy bright fabric across the window, kept in place by clothes pegs, and an old chaise longue the colour of mud. The whole colour scheme owed a lot to mud. The room, like its owner, was elderly but not unpleasant. It smelled of rosewater and was dark on a hot day.There was a large and very colourful picture of a '40s film star; I later found out it was Deanna Durbin. "I am crazed for her," said the woman. She made coffee in the Greek style in a little briki and asked metrios (medium) or vari glykos (very sweet), believing I was Greek."I am Armenian," she said. She brought out an old Bible with a picture of a tree under which a man with dewlaps and huge cheeks sucked on a cheroot. "Husband," she said. He had a big bow in his hair.I knew she wanted to show me or tell me something. Then she took off her hat and the curls came off with it. It lay on a chair with the three curls attached. She was bald and when she removed the suit top was wearing a flimsy shirt. She seemed different. She seemed scary. Her over-lipsticked mouth parlayed into something obscene and wild.The coffee tasted of paraffin. She came nearer, and stood sideways to where I was sitting. She lifted her shirt. Beneath it was a spectacular wound, not yet healed. Not having been stitched it had evolved into something that looked like a netsuke, a shiny white carving, slightly cantilevered and annexed from her side with a sinewy slipper of fresh raspberry-coloured flesh. In the middle was a dark hole. Funerals are wasted on the deadShe had a broad sweep of pectorals and square nipples but no breasts."We must go to a hospital, now, now," I said."I do not go to hospitals," she said, "never".But perhaps the wound was infected? Did she have a temperature? She didn't believe in temperatures, she said. I was relieved to see there was no pus and the hole looked so clean I had a sudden temptation to pop into it one of the red plastic carnations with which her flat was adorned.We drank our coffee and she cheered up. "I am a man, you know," she said. By that time, she could have said "I am a unicorn" and I wouldn't have blinked. Now suddenly she looked like a man. "This wound it is old, old, six months, they stabbed me in the street."Why had she showed me? Perhaps she was looking for reassurance, but I think the real reason was to show off the wound as her work of art. In life when a moment like this presents itself, I always take it up. It never occurs to me to reflect on how I get into these positions. However, by going on little adventures (Jean-Paul Sartre said you only know an adventure when it's over), I have discovered that hell is very nearby, just behind the door. And the door is off its hinges.