It is obvious to me that he is sincerely high, but I hear him out. It's happening upstate, on this guy's farm. Have I seen the poster, the little bird sitting on the guitar? Jimi Hendrix is going to be there. Janis Joplin. He asks me do I want to go, and I don't see any good reason why not.We get in his van and drive up, and we pitch our little tent amidst all the thousands of people. Things happen, and we are having a pretty good time. Everyone is making peace signs at each other. My flower crown is magnificent. I am starting to think that maybe I am in love with my Art Garfunkel-seeming companion. I start to think that, truly, this is the dawning of the Age of Aquarius. I take off my top.Pit bulls don floral crowns to improve their bad rapAnd then it starts to rain, a lot, and there is mud everywhere. The tent leaks. Art Garfunkel is having some kind of bad trip, potentially one where he gets me mixed up with his mom. I put my top back on. It rains and rains. Art Garfunkel, I say, it's time we hit the road. He refuses, by means of an upside-down peace sign. I say that's fine, you stay here in the mud. I'm leaving. My last sighting is of him failing to light a wet cigarette. Idiot, I say to myself. At home, I smugly await his sheepish return. He's going to come back all penitent, and admit that I was right. He'll say no one had fun, and everyone was vomiting basically the whole time.It doesn't go quite like that. He eventually comes back, a full week later, an exultant gleam in his eye. How was it? I say, as doubt starts to creep in. The best thing that ever happened to me, he says. I can't believe you missed it. And then the reports start to trickle in. Woodstock takes its genre-defining place in the culture - the best thing to ever happen to the '60s, to music, America, everything. I spend the rest of my life wishing I could go back in time, to enjoy the festival that I actually attended in the first place.</img>Woodstock. Image: SuppliedWoodstock. Image: SuppliedThis is my fear. It stretches further, of course, than worrying about Woodstock. I am always, somehow, gazing in the wrong direction. I am the person looking sternly at the medium-sized rock, while everyone else gasps at the breaching whale. I listen in on the wrong conversation; I end up in the boring room at the party; I am always surprised by the twist that everyone else saw coming. Is there a name for this? Is it curable? It is the exact opposite of having your finger on the pulse.The only solution, as far as I can see, is to hire someone to look out for me. They'd just follow me around and point out things I should be paying attention to. Look at this, they'll say - this seems important. Stop staring at that bird/wall/picture of a horse and pay attention. Note it down for the future. It would be a great load off my mind - I could finally stop worrying about Woodstock.