Despite a nervy start to his Proteas career late last year, the Highveld Lions middle-order batsman believes he is endowed with the technique and temperament for a sustained test career, even as an opener."I don't just want a taste of test cricket. I want more," insisted Bavuma, who played two tests against the West Indies. "My place is not cemented. I have to put up some big performances."The problem for Bavuma is the Proteas middle order is laden with big names with even bigger averages."I believe as a batter you have to be able to bat anywhere," said Bavuma. "I will bat anywhere required and that includes opening. This is the first time I'm even talking about this. I will continue to bat in the middle order but I'm prepared to go anywhere."He may consider doing so at franchise level, if allowed.Getting noticed has been tough but it meant Bavuma had to take the path less travelled to international cricket.He stopped growing before those with whom he competed, which perhaps partly explains why he didn't blip on the radars that matter before he reached matric. "I suppose that journey has toughened me up. I never played representative cricket until I got to matric. There were obstacles but I reckon that made me stronger."He holds a BCom in finance and management, one of precious few national players with a degree, though the SA Players Association is aggressively addressing that imbalance."I just want to keep learning," Bavuma said about his development as a cricketer."In the Proteas' side I have two of the best in the world around me in AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla. But there is a queue and I fully understand that there are guys ahead of me. Stiaan (van Zyl) and Reeza (Hendricks) are now also part of the squad."Also, Dean Elgar seems to have dropped anchor. Finding a spot as an opener may also be a tall order.Bavuma says he doesn't set himself numerical targets but rather those that help sharpen his game. To that end a fortnight ago he travelled back to Cape Town and spent five days at Gary Kirsten's academy. "I enjoy Gary's style of coaching. He is very relaxed. I specifically worked on my balance, weight transfer and the tightening up of my game."I also worked on the short ball. Not just the pull but also the cut to try to make shots with which I can put the bowlers under pressure."Bavuma didn't kick the door down when he made his test debut, but, crucially, he vows to keep knocking.