Whatever the planet's shortcomings, it has been thrilling to see photographs of it, all smooth-faced and far away. Wordsmith Anu Garg (if you don't already receive his Word A Day, sign up immediately at wordsmith.org) has been so moved by Pluto's celebrity status (take that, Tyrion Lannister) that he has been disseminating all sorts of words to do with the planets.Some of these refer specifically to Pluto. "Plutonian" means "pertaining to Pluto", as in "we are seeing pictures from the plutonian mission", but it can also mean something seedier, as in "the bankers have plutonian motives".</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerIn Graeco-Roman mythology, Pluto was boss of the nether regions, a sinister fellow who liked to tempt dieting girls with pome-granate seeds so that they would keep him company for a while.To make up for its small stature, the planet Pluto has five moons, also named after mythological characters: Hydra, Kerberos, Styx, Charon and Nix.Hydra was a monster with many heads. Cut one head off and another would sprout, except when Hercules took his vorpal sword to it. Cerberus (Kerberos in Greek) was a three-headed hound that guarded the entrance to Hades, or what we might call hell. Pluto had to feed his dog three treats at a time to make it sit.These, as Garg points out, have given us other words. A "hydra" is a multifaceted problem that becomes more problematic when attempts are made to solve part of it. From Styx we get "stygian", which can apply to the dark interior of a dodgy nightclub or to an ill-made oath that cannot be broken (such as signing a cellphone contract).Styx was the name of the river one had to cross to reach eternal damnation in Hades, Charon was the chap who rowed doomed souls over on his ferry, and Nix, or Nyx, was the goddess of night. The Romans called her Nox, and she gave us words such as "nocturnal" and "equinox".There is no earthly reason why the planets were named after Roman gods rather than their Greek equivalents. Perhaps Hermes (the Greek version of Mercury, who is nowadays known as DHL or Fedex) had already been registered as a brand name.Jupiter, our largest planet, was named after Rome's top god, known to the Greeks as Zeus. According to Goscinny, the ancient Romans liked to invoke his name to show they meant business: "We'll capture your village and make you wear togas, by Jupiter." He was also used to denote surprise: "By Jupiter, that Gaulish bard has a terrible voice." Dwarf planet Pluto greets Nasa with a long, cold stareIn English, this expression devolved to "by George" or "by gum", neither of which has quite the same sense of dignity.It's funny how words change. Jupiter, king of the gods, turned into a planet and then an advertising agency. From being god of the underworld, Pluto was demoted to cartoon dog and dwarf planet.The spiral is not always downwards. Take a look at what happens every week below The Pedant Class and you will see how celestial bodies have turned back into gods. The sun smites us by day and the moon by night, and we like to confer meaning on things.Sometimes we are so wrapped up in the use and abuse of words that we forget to enjoy the way they sound. "Smite" is a lovely word. It means "to hit", but as a past participle it becomes "smitten", which means struck down with adoration. If I smite you, you will have been smitten."Smitten" has the cosiness of kittens and mittens. "Smite" has more gravitas (although it could equally be a cousin of Sm agol's who likes Marmite). Smite combines the happiness of "smile", the optimism of "might", and the staying power of "stalactite". Smite. Let's use it.