FACE Nut oils, such as argan and coconut, smell heavenly and have high moisturising benefits. Our top picks have the best blends of oils and butters, which means they also feel superb on the skin. The Body Shop Pomegranate Firming Serum, R225, contains caffeine to stimulate skin's microcirculation and leaves it feeling soft, smooth and moisturised. L'Occitane Shea Zesty Lime Lip Balm, R170. The zingy lime is an invigorating scent and 5% shea provides moisture. Lush Bubblegum Lip Scrub, R95, and Lush Popcorn Lip Scrub, R95, contain fresh ingredients such as real sugar particles for a smooth and sweet lip exfoliator. Labello Lip Butter in Raspberry Ros and Vanilla &amp; Macadamia, R30 each, are made from a base of super-moisturising shea. BODY AND HAIR Creams and lotions are often scented, and there's nothing quite like the lasting pleasure of using something aromatic on skin as a night-time treat. For some extra joy, breathe in the scent as you apply.Score! 20 bargain beauty buys under R200 Kiehl's Rice &amp; Wheat Volumizing Shampoo, R255, is made using proteins and poly-sugar, which add body to thin hair. The product also includes honey, jojoba seed and rice bran for a light, nourishing foam. Creightons Shower Burst in Lime &amp; Grapefruit Energise, Vanilla &amp; Macadamia Cocoon and Raspberry &amp; Pomegranate Revive, R32 each, have natural fruit extracts to refresh, revive and cleanse the skin gently. Available from Pick n Pay. Inoar Extreme Premium Oil, R545. Main ingredients include myrrh, argan, macadamia and rose oils for a lightweight formula that treats hair and leaves it feeling silky and looking shiny. L'Occitane Almond Shower Oil, R295, is a delicately almond-scented cleanser that doesn't strip skin of moisture. Elemis Sp@Home Lime and Ginger Salt Glow, R775. This scrub is a great exfoliator with sustainably sourced oils. The Body Shop Cocoa Butter Cream Body Scrub, R140, is a sweet, vanilla-scented scrub infused with coconut oil and cocoa butter for the best moisturising benefits. Nuxe Huile Prodigieuse Multi-Usage Dry Oil, R360 for 100ml, smells like summer and leaves skin and hair looking radiant.. FRAGRANCE Gourmand fragrances consist of synthetic edible accords such as caramel, candyfloss and even popcorn. If you're a fan of sweet scents, you'll probably love these suggestions. Lanc me La Vie Est Belle L'Absolu de Parfum, R1,300 for 40ml EDP, is an amplified, mouthwatering variant of this family. Notes include iris, blackcurrant accord in the top note and cashmere and praline in the base. Viktor &amp; Rolf Bonbon, R1,445 for 50ml EDP, smells the way the bottle looks - like candy. This cheeky, syrupy scent has a key note of caramel with mandarin, orange and amber in the base. La Collection Priv e Christian Dior F ve D licieuse, R2,300 for 125ml EDP, if chocolate is your vice. Notes and accords include caramel, tonka bean, cocoa and wood for an intense scent that settles well on warm skin. Angel Eau Sucree EDT, R695 for 50ml, is a limited-edition scent with hints of the original Angel Eau de Parfum and elements of red berry sorbet and caramelised meringue. Tangy and sweet.