1. GLYCOLIC ACID What is it? This is an alpha hydroxy acid (AHA).What does it do? In essence it exfoliates the skin. There s a large amount of clinical data which shows how glycolic acid stimulates collagen* production it s also more effective than any other AHA in this regard, adds Donker.What are the upsides? It helps reverse the signs of ageing such as wrinkles and uneven skin colour and texture.What are the downsides? It can cause sensitivity to the sun (which can result in hyperpigmentation) and if used too frequently can cause redness, irritation and flakiness.What to try? NeoStrata Resurface Face Cream Plus 15 AHA, R489 from leading aesthetic clinics. *Good to know: Collagen, which naturally exists in the body, is needed to keep your skin smooth, plump and young looking 2. RETINOL/RETINYL PALMITATE What is it? Essentially it s Vitamin A.The secret's out: Why Thai women look so youngWhat does it do? In a nutshell, it increases collagen* production.Sonette Donker, owner of Skin iD clinic and qualified professional skincare therapist adds: "Clinical data shows that a 1% application of Retinol stimulates the Fibroblast cells within 48 hours; these are the cells that make collagen, elastin and glycoaminoglycans, which form the scaffolding of your skin. This is not, however, the case with Retinyl Palmitate which takes about two weeks to have a similar action. Retinol is also an excellent normalising vitamin; bring about normal skin colour and texture and helps reverse the signs of ageing." What are the upsides? It makes skin look fresher, younger and helps obliterate fine lines and wrinkles. It also helps alleviate acne.What are the downsides? If used incorrectly, it can make skin flake, peel, look red, break out and feel sensitive. For this reason you should build up your resistance to products containing this ingredient: use them once a week at first, then twice a week so your skin has a chance to get used to them.What to try? Dermaceutic Activ Retinol 0.5, R700. 3. PEPTIDES What is it? Proteins and amino acids that act as messengers by sending signals to your skin s cells prompting them to, for instance, produce more collagen*.What does it do? See above.What are the upsides? They leave skin looking plump and more youthful after using for a few weeks.What are the downsides? None. In all my years of experience I have yet to come across a person allergic to peptides," says Donker. What to try? Dermalogica Overnight Repair Serum, R850. 4. VITAMIN C ESTER Local beauties: 6 of SA's best skincare brandsWhat is it? A vitamin naturally present in the body. "Vitamin C can be found in its pure form (L-ascorbic acid) or its stabilised form (Ester), explains Donker. Vitamin C Ester is more effective than the pure form, even at a lower concentration, and is well tolerated by the skin." What does it do? It increases collagen* production and improves protection against oxidative stress eg. sun exposure, pollution, etc this makes it a great as a long-term preventative that ll help offset the signs of ageing.What are the upsides? Basically it increases your skin's elasticity, boosts its radiance and reduces the signs of ageing.What are the downsides? Some people with sensitive skin might get irritated or develop acne as it s a very active ingredient.What to try? Dermaceutic C25 cream Antioxidant Concentrate, R620. 5. VITAMIN E (ALPHA TOCOPHEROL) What is it? The main antioxidant found in our body. Alpha Tocopherol is the most active form of Vitamin E, says Donker.What does it do? It increases protection against oxidative stress which contributes to the signs of ageing, reduces erythema (redness), improves the skin s hydration and its protective barrier function.What are the upsides? Overall, it helps reduce the signs of ageing it s particularly effective when it is combined with Vitamin C.What are the downsides? None, it s very gentle.What to try? The Body Shop Vitamin E Overnight Serum-in-Oil, R155.