Imagine a voice that politely pointed us back in the right direction when we said "slither" instead of "sliver" (just as a reminder: slither is what snakes do; a sliver is a small slice) or mixed up our wheres with our wherefores."You have committed an error of judgment," this virtual assistant might say, in tones of impeccable correctness. "Please turn to page 101 of the dictionary."There are all sorts of rule books to lead us, like Ariadne's thread, through the labyrinthine tunnels of language, but English remains tricky terrain to navigate. Monsters lie in wait around every corner, ready to trap us into saying things we did not mean.The word "map" comes from the Latin mappa, which was a piece of cloth on which maps were drawn: "Here Pliny, pass me your napkin, a paintbrush and an amphora of wine and I'll show you how to get to that lovely little tavern of which Caesar spoke." Planets have inspired a world of wordsMap is a shortening of the Middle English mapemounde - "map of the world". The "world" bit was presumably dropped because maps have moved far beyond the limits of the globe. Nowadays there are maps for all sorts of things, from the stars to bits.In his exquisite novel The Selected Works of TS Spivet, author Reif Larsen's young hero draws maps (reproduced in the book's margins) of everything, from the location of the furniture in his bedroom to the direction of dinner-table conversation.There are also mind maps, those spider diagrams that are supposed to help us organise our thoughts, or come up with inventive solutions to problems, or something, and which British motivational speaker Tony Buzan tried to trademark as his own invention."Map" is an odd word for a technique intended to branch off into unexpected directions. A map, in the traditional sense, gives a fixed sense of where things are, what they are called and how to get to them. A mind map is the equivalent of riding your horse into unmapped territory.There is a film on circuit called Paper Towns, which owes its title to the trickery of mapmakers (or cartographers, if you prefer). Some of these used to put fictitious places on their maps to guard against copyright infringement. The nonexistent locations were known as "trap streets" or "paper towns". Let's hope the makers of global positioning systems don't start doing this or road rage might take a turn for the worse. Endearments wouldn't be as sweet if the dictionary was sugar-freeGiven their important place in the history of the world, it seems odd that maps have not given rise to more idioms. A person who ignores their Facebook profile for a few weeks (or who, like me, does not have one) could be said to have fallen off the map.You can put someone on the map by writing about their astonishing cravat collection. Someone with an even better collection could then wipe them off the map. People who don't use mind maps to regiment their scattered thoughts might be all over the map. Someone else could map out the alternatives to mind maps. But that's about it.Perhaps maps are too serious to be used idiomatically. American poet Adrienne Rich, who died in 2012, wrote in Diving into the Wreck: "The words are purposes. The words are maps."Never mind needing a map to help us navigate oceans of words. The words we choose to use are maps in themselves. The words people favour over other words can tell us where they are from, what mood they are in and whether we should trust them or not. Which only goes to underline how important it is to pick our words as carefully as we do our fights.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1