1. YOGHURT PANNA COTTA WITH ROASTED GUAVAS Serves 6For the panna cotta: Sprinkle 7,5ml (1 tsp) powdered gelatine over 30ml (2 tbsp) water and set aside until it forms a gel. In a pan, heat 1 cup fresh cream, cup sugar and the seeds of 1 vanilla pod. When warm, stir in the gelatine mixture over low heat for 5 minutes without boiling. Remove from the heat and cool completely. Stir in 1 cup (250ml) full-cream plain yoghurt. Pour into a glass serving dish, cover and refrigerate until set.</img>Fresh guavas. Image: ThinkstockFresh guavas. Image: ThinkstockFor the roasted guavas: Place 5 guavas, halved, cut-side up on a sprayed baking tray and sprinkle with a mixture of 45ml (3tbsp) brown sugar and 5ml (1 tsp) ground cinnamon. Top with sprigs of fresh rosemary and bake at 180 C for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool. Process the baked guavas in a blender with a few rosemary leaves. Add 125ml ( cup) sweet wine and 125ml ( cup) water or cream and process again until smooth.To serve: Pass the roasted guava puree rough a sieve and spoon the puree gently over the top of the set pannacotta. Garnish with a few sprigs of rosemary and serve at room temperature. 2. STEWED GUAVAS Serves 6 In a saucepan combine cup sugar or xylitol, 3 cups water, 1 clove, a vanilla pod and 1 tsp grated lemon rind. Bring to the boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Add 1kg firm guavas, peeled and halved, and bring back to the boil. Reduce heat and simmer until guavas are tender but not falling apart. Discard the clove and vanilla pod. Serve warm or cold with cream or custard. 3. SMOKED CHICKEN &amp; GRILLED GUAVA SALAD Serves 4 Combine 1 large sliced smoked chicken breast fillet in a bowl and add, 1 chopped red pepper, 1 peeled and sliced avocado and 2 finely sliced spring onions. Toss gently with a vinaigrette. Preheat a griddle pan and slice 2-3 guavas horizontally into 4-5 slices and and place into pan pressing down on fruit to form griddle marks. Turn and repeat. Remove and cool. Just before serving add the guava slices and 15ml (1tbsp) lightly toasted pumpkin or sesame seeds. Toss gently adding more vinaigrette if needed and serve on a bed of rocket or other leaves.