It's true that there is nothing like a thorough, cathartic moan about someone you find objectionable. It leaves you feeling cleansed and exultant. This person thinks the food he makes is delicious, when really it is quite the opposite. When this person gets angry, and she gets angry a lot, even her legs turn red. But there must be limits. Carry on too long like this and you begin to curdle. Soon, no one wants to be your pal.Talking about enemies is a more dignified undertaking. You need a good reason, for a start. You can't make just anyone your enemy. It can't just be someone who gets on your nerves, even if they get on your nerves a great deal. It has to be someone who has wronged you. The Oxford English Dictionary defines an enemy as "A person who is actively opposed or hostile." The key word here is "actively". Ask yourself: do I feel that the existence of this person significantly diminishes the quality of my life? Or: do I believe, with evidence, that this person wishes me ill? Would they be happy if I was sad? Yes? Congratulations. You've found your enemy. Now say: "This person is my enemy." Do you not feel your spine stiffen? Do you not feel a little bit like a Duke? The perfect crush is imaginary or deadTalk of enemies is also an infallible conversation-starter. I have seen this many times. People at first will respond with confusion: "What do you mean, 'enemy'? I don't have any. I'm not the Count of Monte Cristo." Wait. Their eyes will narrow. They will sit up straighter in their chair. "Well," they'll say, "there is this one guy. If I think about it, he's been trying to bring about my downfall since I was 10 years old." They will suddenly seem taller and more muscly. They will not be able to shut up about it for weeks.People can get carried away with this. Richard Nixon's list of enemies ran into double figures, and this is too many. You need to be restrained. You never want the word "fiendish" to be applied to you in any context. My friend R, a kind and sane man, has developed a very good rule: one enemy at work, and one enemy outside of work. That's it. The idea is that you channel all of your venom and rancour in the direction of just those two. You can hate them like mad, if you need. That is what enemies are for. Once you have a proper nemesis, you are a model of forbearance when it comes to everyone else.The rule seems to be working very well for R - no more grudges, no more low-grade indignation. Only enemies, now, and only the two. He seems more noble, these days. He seems suddenly taller and more muscly.