EASY CHICKEN AND LEEK PIE 1) Remove the skin and bones from 1 cooked chicken, slice the flesh and set aside.2) Fry 4 slices of chopped streaky bacon till crispy and set aside.Chicken & leek pancakes3) Wash and slice 6 leeks and 2 sticks of celery and fry in the bacon fat, adding a generous knob of butter.4) When softened return the bacon to the pan and stir in 30ml (2 tbsp) flour and stir to make a roux. Pour over 500ml (2 cups) chicken stock and stir until thickened.5) Add the chicken to the leeks and stir through and season to taste. Add a dash of ground nutmeg and 250ml (1 cup) cream (or use stock) and stir through and cook till thickened.6) Pour the mixture into a 1.5-litre pie dish and cool.7) Roll out one roll of puff pastry and use it to cover the filling. Use a sharp knife to cut slits in the pastry to allow the steam to escape. Brush with beaten egg and bake in a preheated oven of 200 C for 30-40 minutes until till golden brown. LEEK TEMPURA 1) Wash and dry 12 thin leeks, cutting off most of the green leaves leaving 3cm. With a sharp knife slice just the white part of the leek in half lengthways and in half again to give a "shaker" effect on the white end of the leek.2) To make the tempura batter pour 250ml (1 cup) ice cold sparkling water into a mixing bowl and add 200g tempura flour to the water. Stir quickly until all the flour and water is just mixed. Don't overmix.3) Preheat a pan of oil for deep frying. When the oil is very hot, hold a leek on the green end and dip into the batter turning to coat completely in the batter and carefully drop into the hot oil. Fry about 4 leeks at a time and use a slotted spoon to turn the leeks till cooked through and golden brown in colour. Remove and drain on paper towel and repeat process with remaining leeks towel.4) The secret is to serve the leeks immediately with a salsa or sweet chilli sauce. PICKLED VEGETABLES 1) To make a brine solution, stir 45ml (3 tbsp) coarse salt into 1.25-litres of water. Bring to the boil and set aside.2) Wash 8 leeks and slice into thickish chunks. Combine these with 1 medium cauliflower, broken into florets; 2 green and 2 red peppers cut into chunks; 2 stalks of celery, sliced; and 3 carrots, peeled and sliced. You require 1kg of vegetables in total.3) Place all vegetables into a large glass bowl and cover with the brine solution. Allow to stand for at least 24 hours.4) Rinse under cold water and drain very well. Pack into a large sterilised 2 litre jar and add 2 cloves of garlic, cut in half, 1 red chilli, a sprig of thyme and a bay leaf.5) Make a spiced vinegar by combining 1-litre of white wine vinegar with 10ml (2tsp) pickling spice, 3 whole cloves, a 2.5cm piece of ginger, 1 small cinnamon stick and 45 - 60ml (3-4 tbsp) sugar (more if you like it sweeter) in a large enamel pot. Bring to the boil and simmer for 5 minutes. Cool, then pour over the vegetables, covering them, and seal the jar. Makes a 2-litre jar.