"We're busy with the last-minute runaround, but I think we're ready," Heinrich Strydom, the chief executive of North West Cricket, said three days before today's second one-day international between South Africa and New Zealand.All good. But the cricket-minded folk of Potchefstroom should take a long look at the men in green and gold: it could be a while before they see them in action again.In future the national team will be confined to the country's five highest-ranked venues. Places like Potch, Bloemfontein, Kimberley, East London, Paarl and Benoni are unlikely to make that list. But they all boast grounds where SA have established a relationship with their supporter base. Cricket has set itself apart from rugby and football by taking the national team to smaller centres.But those days are numbered, thanks to cricket's growing corporatisation. "It forms part of a new dispensation announced by Cricket SA (CSA) which is geared to maximise income generation by only allocating internationals to be hosted by the main five stadiums in SA," the WP Cricket Association said.But does that threaten the emotional bond South Africans who don't live in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban, Centurion or Port Elizabeth like to think they have with the team who say they play for them?"We were sold out [on Wednesday], which means people here are hungry for cricket," Strydom said. "I'd like to provide the public with more international cricket, but I understand CSA's position."So do those who run the glitzier venues. Dolphins chief executive Pete de Wet said: "In the light of CSA grading the top five stadiums annually and awarding international fixtures accordingly, we hope the stadium improvements... will contribute to even more international cricket coming to Durban."The catch-22 is that cricket in KwaZulu-Natal is more moneyed than in Griqualand West. What chance does Kimberley in Northern Cape stand of buying its way into the big five?"We've approached local government for assistance," said Eugene Jacobs, chief executive of Griqualand West Cricket Board. "Obviously the public want to see the Proteas but financially we benefit from the new model. From a cricket administrators' point of view, we're happy. But from the public perspective, it is a concern."All that said, England play a one-day international in Bloemfontein on February 3 while the lesser touring teams could yet find themselves in East London.