According to Ernest Heunis, chairman of the Skin, Hide and Leather Council of South Africa, misrepresentation goes a lot further than just the furniture industry - it's rife in the leather-goods and shoe industries, including school shoes."The term 'leather' should only be used if the product (or a significant part of the product) is made from leather, and where the essential nature, appearance and performance of the product is characterised by being made of leather," said Heunis. Sofa-buyer wins lengthy hide and seek ordealIf a tanned hide or skin is disintegrated mechanically or chemically into fibrous particles, small pieces or powders and then, with or without the combination of a binding agent, is made into sheets or other forms, such sheets or forms cannot legitimately be termed leather, Heunis said."Appropriate designations for such material, which will not have the characteristics of leather, are bonded leather fibre or leather fibreboard."Unlike leather products made from whole pieces of animal hide, bonded leather is made by shredding leather scraps and leather fibre, then mixing it with bonding materials. The surface is usually embossed with a leather-like texture or grain.Related products - bicast leather or coated leather - are made by splitting, shaving, or grinding leather to reduce its thickness, and then laminating it. Bicast leather is less durable than genuine leather.Synthetic leathers, on the other hand, contain no animal hide at all and are usually made from plastic. Such artificial leather is marketed under many names, including "leatherette", "faux leather", and "pleather".The latest leather lookalike is a soft, hi-tech polyurethane product called Air Leather. It boasts microperforation so it can "breathe".HEUNIS'S TIPS FOR LEATHER BUYERS: Any word preceding or linked to the word leather, other than "genuine or real", should be met with caution. Be especially cautious of the word "bonded" as this is not leather. It lacks the durability, breathability and formability of leather. Leather is expensive and is generally higher priced than "leather substitutes". Be wary when prices are a lot lower than leather products from reputable brands. Ask salespeople if what you are viewing is leather - and what type of leather. If you're not happy with the answer, be cautious. Insist on an invoice that states that the product is leather and not a leather substitute.