His match-winning hand in the epic World Cup semifinal against the Proteas is the stuff of legends and raised the issues of quotas that poisoned cricket in the pre-franchise era.The 36-year-old St Stithians old boy was not one of the disenfranchised players who upped and left in a huff like discarded England test star batsman Kevin Pietersen.Elliott also played at a time when allrounders like Shaun Pollock, Lance Klusener, Justin Kemp, Jacques Kallis and Andrew Hall closed the door on any provincial pretenders.In short - he wasn't good enough."I didn't leave because of quotas," Elliott told the Sunday Times in an interview."There was an issue with Gauteng cricket and when I left, I was not contracted so I had to look for work elsewhere."The decision to leave was made for me because I wasn't contracted and I didn't have any work in Johannesburg or in South Africa at the time, so I needed to look elsewhere." He added: "You will always have emotional ties but when you've emigrated it is a bit different. You can't be living in the past. When you emigrate, you just get on with what's in front of you. I have family here and South Africa is where I grew up and I'll cherish the memories I have."Expatriates who have come back and made a mark against SA have often had vitriol spewed in their direction.Even though he denied the country of his birth a World Cup final opportunity, the father of two is nonplussed by being back in the country for a whistle-stop limited-overs tour.With his advanced cricketing age, there is more to life for Elliott. After all, cricket has been kind to its elder statesmen latterly despite its monotonous grind."I just try to enjoy every game and you're representing your country. You need to enjoy and cherish every moment. I'm just grateful for every day that I run on the field and get to play cricket at the highest level."Opportunities come and go and you're not guaranteed to score runs every time you're out there. I guess I have been fortunate and I've worked hard at my game," Elliott said."Cricket doesn't define me as a person and I don't feel anything different coming back to South Africa over a game of cricket. Luckily, I'm in a team environment that is conducive to players doing well."