If a powerful group of independent pharmacists gets its way, tens of thousands of medical aid members may no longer have to make additional punitive co-payments on chronic medicines, or use a pharmacy or service not of their choice.The Independent Community Pharmacy Association, representing more than 1000 owner-managed pharmacies and about 2500 pharmacists, wants the regulator, the Council of Medical Schemes, to do away with practices that allow schemes to unilaterally appoint a designated service provider for chronic medication, and apply harsh penalties without limitations. These penalties, based on varying percentages of the value of the medicine, are charged over and above standard scheme co-payments.The association wants these practices declared undesirable, and has filed papers with the council's appeal board.So what does it mean for consumers? The Power Report spoke to the association's CEO, Mark Payne:Your issue is with closed designated service providers , or DSPs, not open ones. What's the distinction? Discovery Health's change to rules on lower-end plans angers membersA closed DSP is a preferred service provider [in this case, a pharmacy] that has been appointed by the medical scheme to provide chronic medication to its beneficiaries. An open DSP is where all service providers that can offer the same chronic medicine service at the same professional fee can participate in the arrangement.Consumers, however, can be charged punitive fees by their scheme in either arrangement.And you believe a closed DSP hurts consumers and other pharmacies?Yes. If I am willing to provide the same service at the same cost, why should my pharmacy be excluded from the DSP arrangement? We don't believe a scheme should be allowed this absolute discretion.Furthermore, the member gets punished for using a non-network pharmacy of their choice. In open DSP arrangements, pharmacies have the choice to contract in, giving members more choice [and opportunity to avoid extra penalties]. Situations may occur where the consumer is inconvenienced because they may use their local pharmacy for their acute medicine but have to use another supplier for the chronic component, otherwise they face high penalties. It's an iniquitous system.But it's not just closed DSPs you're fighting - you want penalties dropped, too?Yes. While we accept that basic co-payments - the difference between the dispensing fee charged by the DSP and the non-DSP - may be necessary, members can now also be charged a percentage, ranging from 20% to 40%, of the cost of the medicine. A consumer can end up paying up to 60% of the cost of their chronic medicines out of their own pocket.And the Council for Medical Schemes doesn't see any problem here?The council believes penalty co-payments on scheme members are necessary to ensure that the DSP mechanism serves the purpose for which it was intended - a cost-saving mechanism for schemes because of the burden of having to pay in full for prescribed minimum benefits. The contracted DSPs only agree to charge their low dispensing fee rates if the scheme can guarantee patients are soft-channelled into the DSP. </img>Pills. File photo. Image: Gallo Images/ThinkstockPills. File photo. Image: Gallo Images/ThinkstockThe council believes that if the punitive part of the co-payment were to be removed , patients could choose between the DSP or the non-DSP. The council thinks that because healthcare costs are not regulated and providers can charge whatever they want, DSP arrangements are concluded on the basis of negotiations that favour both parties. We don't agree.Healthcare costs in the pharmacy sector are highly regulated and pharmacies are restricted as to the professional fees that they may charge (unlike other healthcare providers). Consumers need to be aware that it is not their local independent pharmacy that is charging this penalty co-payment, but rather their scheme which implements the draconian rules.But you would agree that in terms of prescribed minimum benefit regulations, things like medicine formularies (the approved list of medicines a scheme will pay for) , co-payments and service provider networks are necessary to control a scheme's financial risk exposure?Yes, but it is the way these mechanisms are implemented and the scheme rules governing these principles which are unfair to the consumer and healthcare professional. In the pharmacy world, it is the consumer that ultimately picks up co-payments, whether the scheme chooses to cap the professional fee payable and/or implement DSP arrangements.What will you do if the council doesn't budge?We'll go to court. Contact Megan Power E-mail: consumer@sundaytimes.co.zaFollow Megan on Twitter: @Power_ReportTune in to PowerFM 98.7's 'Power Breakfast' (DStv audio channel 889) at 8.50am on Monday to hear more from MeganPlease note: Other than in exceptional circumstances, readers sending me complaints must be willing to be identified and photographed.