PLUCK Plucking gets one hair at a time, making it ideal for grooming eyebrows or removing other stray hairs.5 reasons oil-based beauty products are da balmTIPS: Invest in a good pair of tweezers to ensure that it lasts for years. For very sensitive skin, try numbing the area with an ice block before you start.TRY: La-Tweez Pro Illuminating Tweezer, R250, comes with a tiny LED light for increased visibility. Philips SatinPerfect Epilator, R999, has a removable shaving head. Imagine 20 tweezers plucking at once ... if you can handle that thought, this is the gadget for you. Tweezerman Ingrown Hair/Splintertweeze, R284, has a fine tip for extra precision. Tweezerman Neon Pink Slant Tweezer, R250. A well-trusted pair. THREAD Threading is an ancient method that is slightly more painful than waxing. A beauty therapist uses thread to remove hair from the root. TIP:This option is best for smaller areas, such as the face and brows, and is good for skin that is easily irritated by wax.TRY: Sorbet offers the service at various branches. Beautiful Brows also specialises in eyelash extensions. WAX Although it can be painful, waxing removes each hair strand from the root, which makes regrowth take longer. An added long-term bonus is that hair growth is reduced over time. Makeup trend made simple: How to master dewy cheeksTIPS: Hot wax is best for stubborn underarm and bikini-line hair and strip wax is good for larger surface areas on arms and legs. Remember that hair follicles are close to sebaceous glands, so waxing your lip may cause a breakout. If this happens, use tea tree oil as an antibacterial treatment.TRY: Sorbet Wax Me! I'm Famous, R160, is non-sticky, heats up easily in the microwave and is easy to pull off. Sorbet Take It Off Strip Wax, R70. Made especially for smaller areas. Sorbet Happily Ever After Post Wax Cream for Face and Body, R70. Soothes skin and removes traces of wax. Environ Derma-Lac Lotion, R237. A firm Fashion Weekly favourite, it contains lactic acid to exfoliate dead skin cells and prevent ingrown hairs. Only use a few days post-wax. LASER Laser hair removal is the expensive but most permanent solution. It uses intense light beams to damage hair at its root, which prevents it from growing back. TIP:The treatment works best on dark hair because the laser targets follicle pigment. Depending on your hair type, you will need between five and eight treatments.TRY: At 15 on Seventh Dr Mark Steinmann has therapists who can assess your skin beforehand for the best results. Prices are about R500 for one session for both underarms. Laserderm Medical Aesthetic Centres has a variety of treatments and branch locations. Guilt-free indulgences: 15 beauty buys inspired by tasty treats SHAVE The most standard hair-removal practice.TIPS: A good trick is to go with - and not against - the grain so that you don't tug hair strands. This method can also help prevent cuts and ingrown hairs. Keep in mind that disposable razors are exactly that - throw them away after a few uses.TRY: Philips Ladyshave, R199, is battery operated but can be used in the shower. Eucerin AtoControl Bath &amp; Shower Oil, R140, is moisturising and gives the perfect amount of slip for wet shaving. SOOTHE Now that you're fuzz-free, you might want something to soothe your skin. Dry body oils give a healthy sheen and ingredients like aloe calm irritated skin.TRY: Noreva Kerapil Dermo-Regulating Care, R220, is a bestseller in France. It includes ammonium lactate to exfoliate and is tolerated well by skin. Available from Clicks. Kiehl's Superbly Restorative Argan Dry Oil, R475 for 125ml, is moisturising, smells lovely and absorbs quickly. Nivea Q10 Plus Firming Body Oil, R100, has a toning effect. Kiehl's Dermatologist Solutions Centella Recovery Skin Salve, R585, includes aloe vera and is pH-balanced to care for irritated, sensitive skin. The Body Shop Tea Tree Oil, R75, is a natural antiseptic.