My last job in the corporate world was as R&amp;D manager for a Malaysian-owned fats and oils company. One day, while climbing a ladder to peer inside an 80 ton tank of coconut oil, I had an epiphany. Part of my job involved tasting fat samples when the scientific test for rancidity yielded borderline results. The epiphany I had is that my kids were growing up and that soon I would have to answer the question: "What do you do for a living?" It occurred to me that the honest answer would have to be: "Sometimes I shower, moisturise and get dressed so I can spend the day stuffing lumps of fat in my mouth."The only vocation with a more absurd explanation is that of Johannesburg Metro Police Department officers: "I leave the house with my flask and Marmite sandwiches to go hide behind bushes all day."However, the primary reason I finally quit the fat-lump munching was my aversion to posterior alimentary canal climbing.Growing up, I was told that if you're smart, hard-working, loyal and dependable, you will be rewarded with upward mobility in your chosen field. Of course, this was said to me in the '80s, in the context of the limited roles available to one at the time: policeman, teacher or court interpreter in the Tugela Ferry magisterial district . The naked truth hurts the worstAfter my experience in the corporate world I can confidently tell you that this is a crock. Sure, talent and working hard get you short-listed for reward and recognition. But the deciding factor, I learnt, is one's alacrity when it comes to creeping up one's bosses' behinds.There has never been a case of senior management saying: "I don't believe I've ever seen her strategically placed behind me with puckered lips, but based purely on her hard work, let's promote her."Acquisition of prime real estate up your boss's colon is an integral part of upward mobility. And you have to elbow out any potential resident once you're snuggled into that warm cocoon. I remember walking into a colleague's office circa 2005 and asking if he'd managed to convince our boss to grant him capex for some engineering project. His answer: "Well, I tried to crawl up John's rectum to blow some smoke up there but I found Raj already inside, blocking the way with some vicious Schalk Burger high tackles."It took me a while to figure out why managers have such an insatiable hunger for being surrounded by praise singers and borderline court jesters. In his 1996 book The Dilbert Principle, cartoonist and author Scott Adams asserted that companies tend to promote their least competent employees to management in order to limit the amount of damage they are capable of doing. According to Adams, this is because at lower levels there is actual work to be done. I have no reason to dispute his theory.Early on in my corporate career I had a boss who used to impress me with a display of such dazzling incompetence in our technical area that I would sometimes be tempted to cock my hand in the thumbs-up sign, emit a Khoi click, wink at him and go: "I see what you're doing. You're testing my knowledge, right?" It was only later that a birdie whispered in my ear that his effortless glide up the rungs of the corporate ladder was due, in part, to his eagerness to baby-sit a senior manager's cats on weekends. Jou maas se sour pussI remember one European expat who was a manager in one of the departments I worked in who took the body-crevice creeping to the front by starting a romance with one of my colleagues. Except that he was married and could only see her during the week. The idea of spending the whole weekend without seeing the concubine was too much to bear, so he'd organise these "informal" braais at his house over weekends and we'd be "gently encouraged" to attend under the guise of team bonding.To avoid being used as a decoy for these romantic dates, I started claiming that I was burying relatives in KwaZulu-Natal each time the invitation came. Soon, I had run out of relatives to "kill" and started recycling dead aunties from my paternal side, resurrecting them and burying them again.And don't get me started on the need some bosses harbour to have a ready audience for their pointless monologues. The MD of one of the organisations I worked at was legendary in this regard. He was a more impressive generator of hot air than the Kilauea volcano in Hawaii.One Friday morning he grabbed the bottle of water in front of him and launched into a rambling, almost two-hour soliloquy about the importance of water, how it sustains life et cetera, uttered in sombre tones that suggested he didn't think any of us had ever attended a Grade 4 science lesson. I still don't know what point he was making.Halfway through the droning lecture I rediscovered the Catholic boy inside me, invoking St Agatha of Sicily, the patron saint of natural disasters, to intercede on our behalf. Just as I was about to yank out my nasal hairs to induce a nosebleed so that I could escape, a colleague asked: "Where is this going?" She was fired a few months later.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo