He felt so good about his good deed that the following day he did it again. Every day for the next year he would stop, hand over his R5 and walk to his office without taking any apples. Then one day he approached the woman and deposited his R5 into her palm, but just as he walked on she went, "They're R6 now, you know?" Incredulous, he turned around and asked her, "Come again?""I said a bunch of apples is not R5 anymore; it's R6. Inflation." Controversial songs are catchy as hellBefore I'm the subject of litigation on the grounds of plagiarism let me hasten to point out that this story was told to me some 20-odd years ago by one of those motivation speaker types during some leadership seminar or the other. I suspect it's from a self-help book. I can't remember what lesson I was meant to have learned from it. I've retold it over the years when there has been a lull in conversation because it's an entertaining story.I was reminded of it the other day while watching a segment on food waste in the US on HBO's news satire show Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. Apparently Americans toss perfectly edible food to the value of $165-billion (about R2-trillion) into garbage cans every year, in a country where 49million people are not assured of a meal every day.One fellow explained how US farmers would throw away fresh produce which had failed the stringent supermarket standards for aesthetic appearance, rather than donate it to the needy because of the fear of litigation should anyone suffer food poisoning from it. That's correct; there is a fear of being sued by hungry folks should the free food accidentally make them sick.While shaking my head incredulously, Mrs N cut me short with a personal story in the same vein. After a feast at her gran's house in Atteridgeville, Pretoria, one year, there were bucketfuls of meat, chakalaka, pap and samp left over. They loaded it into a bakkie and delivered it to a nearby orphanage.Not so fast, they were told, please provide us with a certificate from the Tshwane health authorities to prove that your food poses no safety risk. Understandable, I guess. Still; I cannot get over the absurdity of gift food being turned away from the mouths of hungry children.I guess my point is that this business of giving is not as straightforward as one might assume. Part of the problem, I reckon, is that when most of us give, we secretly expect gratitude in return.Whenever you watch one of the thousands of nation-builder-of-the-year award ceremonies we have, I roll my eyes when the winners go on about how, "You know, when you give you must not expect gratitude or anything in return ... for the Bible tells us so," and so on. I always think, "Funny how you jumped straight to gratitude without prompting." I guess that's the cynic in me. Pucker up if you want to climb the corporate ladderYou hear this expectation of thanks and recognition in the voices of benevolent talk-radio callers going, "I give my car guard a can of corned beef and a loaf of bread every chance I get and he is sooo grateful!", uttered in such a smug tone that you almost want to yell, "What do you want; the Order of Mapungubwe for your corned beef?"And then you have to reel yourself in and acknowledge that it is human nature to feel that way. If people didn't experience a wave of serotonin and other "feel good" hormones after a good deed, there'd be far less giving going around in this world.Of course, on the flipside, you have to spare a thought for those on the receiving end of freebies. I remember my high school principal at Inkamana, Sister Dorothea, berating my Standard 9 class after we complained about the worms in a meat-and-vegetable dish.This was, of course, because the veggies were grown organically on our own farm and were so fresh they were still breathing when they landed on our plates. Add to that the fact that the school was handsomely subsidised by benefactors, and you can understand her frustration. Sister Dorothea's harangue injected steroids into my already revved up Catholic guilt until I imagined myself being licked by the flames of Hades for not eating my worms in silence and being grateful about it.I felt like the guy in the township urban legend who faints on a bus. The only thing cold available to give him is a can of Coke that a generous lady fishes out of her plastic bag. After he's partially revived he asks, "So, you're not even going to offer me those Marie biscuits to go with the Coke?"E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo