Those affected now have to use the scheme's mandatory provider, MedXpress, to get approved chronic medication.If they don't they will be billed 20% of the cost of the medicine, which includes the dispensary fee. They'll fork out even more if the member's chosen provider charges more than Discovery's agreed rate, or the member uses medicines not on the scheme's approved formulary. Power Report: Pharmacy body seeks to relieve costs painSaid reader Vivienne Lloyd: "We should be able to continue dealing with pharmacies of our choice without extra payments on already exorbitant premiums. Discovery Health is making profit at the expense of members."Gill Etherington agreed. "Should we not join MedXpress or receive our chronic medicine from a pharmacy without MedXpress status, we'll be charged. We are being held to ransom by Discovery Health."Cape Town reader Nick Green said the service was not in members' interests or in the interests of retail pharmacy.But Discovery Health CEO Jonathan Broomberg said designated service providers were critical in ensuring schemes provided full funding for chronic medicines. "These arrangements also help ensure that contributions remain affordable and that schemes comply fully with all provisions of the Medical Schemes Act."Broomberg said Discovery had consulted widely with all industry stakeholders and, where possible, allowed access to any provider willing and able to comply with requirements.He said that in most Discovery plans, where no designated service providerwas required, members could use any pharmacy they liked. However, such members could still incur standard co-payments under certain circumstances. "Discovery Health has negotiated preferential pricing ... by using these contracted pharmacy networks, the medical schemes can achieve significant savings on dispensing fees, and through appropriate use of generics and other formulary medicine items. These savings assist in reducing premiums. This is especially critical for the lower premium plans."