Last summer I bought a single strawberry plant to amuse a kid, hoping he would learn that they don't grow on trees like spaghetti. This spring I have 15 plants, after replanting the plants at the end of runners that rooted in soil or paving around the pot. At that rate I should have 225 plants next spring, and have to leave home within five years. Strawberries can be easily used as a productive groundcover, but they do have to be renewed every three years for best results: that applies to most groundcovers.We think of them as quintessentially English - strawberries and cream at Wimbledon - but modern strawberries are a cross between a variety from North America and one from Chile, first grown in France in the 1750s. Before that, Europeans grew a woodland or alpine strawberry which is much smaller: you often see them in Renaissance paintings.How to plant up (& easily water) a strawberry potCommercially, strawberries are grown in long mounds covered in plastic and pierced with holes, but that may not look so hot in your garden. Rather use straw as a mulch to keep the fruit off the ground, but even that is unnecessary if you grow them in pots.They like a well-drained, richly composted soil, and will enjoy organic feeding in the fruiting season, which is early summer. Don't let them dry out. There are many different varieties and your local nursery should sell one best suited to your area.You should get a crop out before summer pests strike, but planting marigolds, garlic and chives near strawberries helps keep them away. Slugs and snails can be a problem. Bury plastic cups of beer in the soil, they can't resist it and will sadly drown, but your dog will not.You may have to move the strawberries around the garden to rotate the crop, and they won't like soil that has recently hosted tomatoes, peppers or eggplant. They prefer full sun, but will take some shade on the highveld.You are unlikely to harvest enough to flood the market, but you will have fun. Pick them only when ripe, and if you can stop yourself eating them on the spot, make a summer drink or dessert.RECIPES THAT MAKE THE MOST OF HOMEGROWN STRAWBERRIESStrawberry daiquiri Crush 1 cups of ice in a blender then add 180ml ( cup) white rum, the juice of 2 limes, 45ml (3 tbsp) sugar and a 250g punnet of washed and hulled strawberries. Blend on high until the strawberries are smooth. Stop and mix with a spoon and blend for another 10 seconds. Pour into four or more frosted glasses and garnish with a strawberry sliced in the middle.Just desserts: Flaming strawberriesStrawberry ClafoutisA clafoutis is a dead-easy baked French dessert, traditionally made with black cherries, but strawberries also work. Preheat the oven to 180 C and butter a 25cm flan or tart dish. Sprinkle 30ml (2 tbsp) brandy and 25g caster sugar over 500g washed and hulled strawberries and tumble to coat. Pack the berries close together over the base of the dish. Sift together 120g (1 cup) flour, a pinch of salt and 50g caster sugar in a mixing bowl. Make a well in the centre and add 3 beaten eggs and a few drops of vanilla essence. Lastly add 150ml cream and 150ml milk and mix to a smooth batter. Pour over the strawberries and bake for about 35 minutes until lightly browned and puffed up. Serve lukewarm, dusted with a little icing sugar. Serves 6