Without curiosity, crystal springs would remain untapped, duck-billed platypuses would remain unnamed, and we'd have no idea what the surface of Mars looked like.Thanks to Curiosity, we now know that there may once have been spring water on Mars, a fact almost as useful as antibiotics. Curiosity is the name of the Nasa rover sent to sniff around on Mars. Had there been cats living on the red planet, they might have been in danger of being run over by Curiosity (although cats with any sense know to be wary of Rovers). How we d speak without GreekInquisitiveness rewards us with knowledge that broadens our minds and brightens our horizons. It makes us better people too: only by prying into the ways of others do we learn to accept and understand difference.If we were not curious, we would not care about the origins of words and phrases, and we'd miss out on all the enjoyment there is to be gleaned from delving into such things.Curiosity was not always held in such high esteem. In his Confessions in 397AD, Saint Augustine wrote that God "fashioned hell for the inquisitive". Some religious sects took this as an instruction to blindly accept the world as it is - split infinitives and all - and not try to figure out better ways of doing things, but I think perhaps all Auggie meant was that having an inquiring mind is as stressful as hell. The desire to know everything can turn into a time-consuming obsession.The Phrase Finder (phrases.org.uk) says the expression "curiosity killed the cat" was first seen in print in a US newspaper in 1898. It was quickly adopted as a useful means of telling children not to ask why the sky is pale green after sunset or for whom the bell tolls. The original phrase, however, had nothing to do with a cat's investigative talents."Curiosity killed the cat" was in fact a perversion of the proverb "care killed the cat", used by Ben Jonson in his 1598 play, Every Man in His Humour, and borrowed a year later by William Shakespeare in Much Ado About Nothing, which contains the lines: "What, courage man! What though care killed a cat, thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.""Care", in this sense, has nothing to do with giving a kitten a good home or sharing your sandwich with a hungry person. Shakespeare and Jonson used care as a synonym for "worry", or the more ostentatious "stress" as we like to call it these days.(Stress has become a terribly abused word, incidentally. I think we should return it to its place among objects subject to undue pressure, and make humans go back to mere worrying. "I'm so worried" seems somehow more manageable than the melodramatic "I'm so stressed", and having not a care in the world is far more descriptive than being "stress-free".) Endearments wouldn't be as sweet if the dictionary was sugar-freeBut back to curiosity. It is what drives the urge to uncover gossip-worthy secrets and the itch to experiment with illicitness. In a recent scandal, some of the public figures revealed as members of an online cheating site made the excuse that they were "just curious".Until fairly recently, anything described as "curious" in booksellers' catalogues referred to erotic material. That has given way to a category unashamedly labelled "pornography".On a less scurrilous note, this weekend hundreds of singles are gathered in Lisdoonvarna for Ireland's annual matchmaking festival. On the perils of internet dating, Irish matchmaker Willie Daly, 73, said: "It is far more effective to touch a person than the keys of a computer." And far more likely to satisfy one's curiosity.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot at degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1