Sugar has set us on such a high that it was inevitable it would be stirred into speech and writing. Grains of it sprinkle our language as liberally as they do cr me br l e.William Shakespeare had a sweet tooth. Consider: "Sweets for my sweet"; "Such sweet thunder"; "Sweet are the uses of adversity"; "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet"; "How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank"; "When to the sessions of sweet silent thought..." and, of course: "Good night, sweet prince."This favouring of sugar seems a little unfair when you consider that the tongue is able to taste four other flavour groups. There used to be just three tastes besides sweet - sour, salty and bitter - but in 1908 Professor Kikunae Ikeda identified the "fifth taste", the savoury pungency (caused by glutamate) of cheese, meat, seaweed, mushrooms and soy sauce. He called this "umami", which is Japanese for "deliciousness".Just like sweet, "salty", "sour" and "bitter" have become words used to describe people's behaviour or dispositions. Unlike sweet, the other three are mostly heard in a negative sense. For some reason, our tongues send friendly thoughts to our brains when they encounter a spoonful of chocolate ice cream. If this were the case for lemon juice or peppercorns, our vocabulary might be entirely different. Horatio might have said, "Good night, sour prince" to Hamlet, and meant it with bitter sincerity."Umami" has not yet ventured beyond the bounds of taste as a descriptive term, but it probably will. One day critics might call Hamlet an umami's boy.</img>Sugar-plum fairy. Image: Piet GroblerSugar-plum fairy. Image: Piet GroblerBut back to sugar. In The Oxford Companion to Sugar and Sweets (a bowl of linguistic delights coveted by bakers, and perhaps by diabetics who can only read about the forbidden substance), contributor Jonathon Green writes that the earliest slang use of "sugar" was in place of "money".This is still evident in the term "sugar daddies", those nasty creatures exposed in another film currently on circuit, Thina Sobabili.Green points out that sweet can sometimes appear in contexts that leave a bad taste in the mouth, such as the snide phrase "take your own sweet time" and that word used to help win tender bids - "a sweetener".Despite these aberrations, usage still tips overwhelmingly towards the positive. In South Africa, "sweet" (or "schweet", usually followed by bru or ek s ) can indicate satisfaction with anything from a carburettor to a haircut, a hedgehog or a surfboard.The word "sugar" came into English the long way round (when things could move only by land or ship), via Old French, Medieval Latin, Arabic and Persian. The original Sanskrit meaning of sharkara, says the Online Etymology Dictionary, was "grit" or "gravel". How strange that we don't call those dear to us "gravelheart" or "grittypie".Yet all over the world, names for adored ones drip with sweetness. In English we have sugar-plum, honey, sweetie, sweetheart, pudding, muffin, biscuit and cupcake.Some of us are less enamoured of the sweet stuff than others, and we can become bitter about sugar's colonisation of romance. Given a choice between pudding and pizza, I'd choose pizza every time. I must be in the minority, however, because if everyone felt the same way, lovers would go around calling each other "my little mozzarella" or "my darling oregano".Despite the health warnings, reliance on sugar is going to be a difficult habit to break, but if, as Gameau hopes, the world becomes sugar-free, we might see a corresponding change in terms of endearment. I leave you with that thought to chew on, salty readers.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1