No one in my Nairobi neighbourhood quite knows what happened. I have tried to ask around but it seems one day he was alright and then the next day he had lost it. And that's the problem with mental illnesses. No one can ever quite explain them. Psychiatrists may be scientists but it's definitely not an exact science.The reason Ongono is special to my family is that he is this gentle guy who has things that he says to each of us. To my son H he always says in a very lazy voice, "You don't speak Swahili, you are from South Africa." As a 10- year-old four years ago, H would nod and say, "No. I don't speak Swahili." Ladies day? Not for this African feministToday, although he now speaks pretty good Swahili and converses with his friends in the language, young H still feels it would be rude to contradict Ongono, so he always says he does not speak it. I have often wondered what would happen if he gave a different response. Would their dialogue change?When Ongono meets my partner, who is a journalist, he asks, "Where can I get the Weekly Review?"The Weekly Review folded in 1999. My assumption is that that's when he might have started losing his mind. Partner always gently tells him it folded. And then Ongono puts his head on the side and says in the most mournful voice, "The Weekly Review was a good newspaper. They must bring it back." Unsure how to respond, partner always nods and says, "Yes, they should." Musings about misheard lyrics Then there is my relationship with Ongono. Every time I meet him he says, "I love South Africa. I do not want to go to the US, I do not want to go to London, I only want to go to South Africa." My response: "I am sure you would enjoy it." Then he nods and says, "Yes. I love South Africa. Yvonne Chaka Chaka." And invariably he starts singing Chaka Chaka's Umqombothi. Except his lyrics sound something like, Wemalamini, uphi umkomboti. This is my cue to start dancing with him a little bit before I go on my way.But last week Ongono surprised me. He did not say the usual. He walked up to me and said apropos of nothing, "I love Zulus." No "hello", no nothing. Just stated his heartfelt love for Zulus. I gave him a thumbs-up and told him some of my best friends were Zulus, too. This got me wondering whether there is anyone out there in KwaZulu-Natal willing to sponsor a ticket and provide room and board for my friend. This would be a great way of getting this lovely gentle giant to indulge his two great loves, South Africa and Zulus.I would have asked that you throw in an appearance by Ms Chaka Chaka but she is in Kenya often enough, I am sure one day we can hijack her to meet my guy. Any offers?