Cue a thousand eye rolls and a million side eyes. Because, without fail, when a post begins like that, it means some misogynistic/ ignorant/judgmental opinion disguised as "advice" is sure to follow.It's the model that's made millions for men such as the patron saint of patriarchal bullshit, Steve Harvey: tell women what to do and pretend it's for their own good. But really, it's almost always for the greater good of the patriarchy.The advice is usually about (heterosexual) relationships, motherhood (yes, some men think they know more about motherhood than actual mothers), looks and behaviour.Bic issues apology for 'think like a man' Women's Day postA sample post would go something like this: "Ladies, you're beautiful as you are. You don't need fake hair to be beautiful. You don't need makeup to enhance your looks. Inner beauty is all that matters.That doesn't mean you should walk around in short skirts and low-cut tops. Yes, you have lovely legs and we love to look at them.But it's more special when a man can enjoy your legs in private, alone, rather than with every man on the street. You're queens, you don't need to lose our respect to gain our attention."Note the condescending tone masked as concern and the sexist orders masquerading as advice.The men who write such things are what the internet refers to as "progressive patriarchs": men who are all for equality of the sexes - as long as males remain in power socially, economically and otherwise.They could be the same men who think feminism is "un-African', which is utter rubbish. So many of our mothers and grandmothers are and were feminists - they just didn't use the word. Feminism, my dear brothers, is not a Western construct that sailed to Africa in order to destroy all that is African. Why having an enemy can be great therapyA lot of the men who are generous with their advice freak out when they are called out for their sexist ways. Please, don't tell me your advice comes with good intentions. I highly doubt you tell men how to behave half as much as you tell women what to do.Being a woman is not like being a puppy: we don't need to be house-trained . And even if we do poop on your carpet, maybe that's not such a bad thing.The subliminal message from much of this advice is that women are ultimately responsible for the way others treat them, which is not entirely true.Of course, we all have to take responsibility for our actions and in general "teach people how to treat us", but how does me wearing a short skirt tie in with being respected by others?What's the correlation between who I have sex with and how other people treat me? And why, oh why must I look to others for approval?This advice also always boils down to one thing: "wife-ability".As we all know, the endgame for every woman on earth is to get married. And in order for us to be "wifed" by someone, we need to behave a certain way, hang out in certain places and make sure we subscribe to "progressive patriarchy", otherwise we'll end up as very bitter and sad single ladies.Heaven forbid.