LOADS OF LASHES MAC senior artist Michelle-Lee Collins has a handy trick: apply false eyelashes onto the waterline of your eyelids. You won't feel a thing and the effect is very natural.If falsies aren't your thing, but you still want the doll-eye effect, use a primer before applying a volumising mascara to enhance what you've got. Visit maccosmetics.co.za to try a very helpful feature, which directs you to a mascara suited to your needs.Beauty buys to try: Rimmel 24HR Super Volume &amp; Curl Mascara, R120, is a new curler and mascara in one, defining lashes for up to 24 hours. Clinique High Impact Mascara, R230. One of our favourite mascaras. Est e Lauder Little Black Primer, R345, amplifies eyelashes and is black in colour (unlike some primers, which are usually white). NATURAL GLOW Good skin is always in. Instead of applying foundation to your face like a mask, rather dot it and your concealer where you need it most (around nostrils, mouth and chin) to combat discolouration, redness or blemishes, leaving the rest of your natural skin to radiate. If oiliness is a concern, keep a lightweight powder on hand for touch-ups.12 women who rock the hell out of natural hairBeauty buys to try: Babor Fluids FP Moist &amp; Lipid New Skin Fluid, R732 for seven 2ml ampoules, acts as a moisturising, rehabilitating boost for stressed skin. Bobbi Brown Long-Wear Even Finish Compact Foundation, R510. A creamy formula that can be blended with fingers. Smashbox 24-Hour CC Spot Concealer, R320, treats and covers up spots. Elizabeth Arden Flawless Finish Correcting and Highlighting Perfector, R260, conceals and enhances. PASTEL PRETTY Be it a light flush of lavender on eyelids or full on, we love a pop of chalky pastel for spring. Pair your hue of choice with big, unbrushed curls. Beauty buys to try: Smashbox LA Lights Blendable Lip &amp; Cheek Color, R320, is very versatile. MAC Spring Trend Eye, Lip and Cheek Palette, R500. available in many hues. FRESH RED Keep bright red lips fresh by blurring the edges for a more modern approach. Pick reds with coral and pink undertones for a less wintery feel. Pout perfection: Makeup tips for bold lipsBeauty buys to try: Chanel Rouge Allure Velvet Lipstick in La Bouleversante, R505. Soft and powdery. L'Or al Color Riche Le Lip Liner Couture, R130. A vibrant hue that stays put. Chanel L vres Scintillantes in Ch ne Rouge, R425. Inspired by hypericum fruits. Clarins Rouge Eclat Lipstick in Red Paprika, R270. Hydrating and spicy in colour. 