Some jokes about bars are intellectual: So this woman walks into a bar and asks for a double entendre, and the barman gives her one.Some are not: Two peanuts walk into a bar. One is assaulted.There are infinite variations on this theme. So this seal walks into a club. Ouch. So this fish swims into a wall. Dam.I thought I had raised the bar the other day when, in a conversation about the TV series Cheers (if you have never watched it, you won't get this), I made the joke: So this average guy walks into a bar, and everyone shouts, "Norm!"Then I realised the everyman reference was why the character was called Norm, and that it has taken me 20 or so years to understand the punchline. So I'm not always quick on the uptake. So what?</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler"Average" is an interesting word. Before it walked into a bar, says the Online Etymology Dictionary, average (from the French avarie) used to mean "financial loss incurred through damage to goods being transported by ship". In the 16th century the meaning of average shifted along the bar a bit and came to mean the "equal sharing of loss by interested parties". From there you can see how average reached middle ground and linked arms with norm and mean."Mean" is a more perplexing word, one that must flummox learners of English. As a noun it means either the calculated average or the middle path between two extremes. The second meaning was popularised by Aristotle, who called the avoidance of excessive opposites the "golden mean". Imbibing too little liquid could result in dehydration; imbibing too much could result in drunkenness, or drowning. Following the golden mean means quenching one's thirst while remaining under the legal limit.One does not often encounter the golden mean in bars, although golden mead once flowed freely. Speaking of gold, the magnificent Helen Mirren stars in a film called Woman in Gold, which is currently on circuit, and the Golden Boot is an award for the top goal scorer in the Fifa World Cup.But back to mean. As a verb, it means signify, intend, refer to or result in, among other things. As an adjective, it can mean unkind, spiteful or downright vicious, as in the film Mean Girls. The Pedant Class: Everyone s favourite slime ballMean is no longer frequently heard in its older sense - inferior, lowly, squalid or humble - but to make up for this it has acquired a shiny new meaning. Just as "wicked" means "good" in modern argot, so does "mean" mean "excellent", as in "he plays a mean ukulele".Mean also means unwilling to share or spend, in other words stingy, tight-fisted or parsimonious. Aristotle had a golden mean. Ebenezer Scrooge had gold and was so mean that his name has become a noun. A scrooge today is a mean old miser, or a miserly old meanie, if you prefer.Dickens's Scrooge is one of many literary characters who have marched out of books and into common speech. "Svengali" (a person who manipulates and controls another person) is from George du Maurier's novel Trilby. "Namby-pamby" is from a 1725 poem by Henry Carey, and "nerd" is from Dr Seuss's If I Ran the Zoo.So much for meanings based on creatures from the past. What words can we look forward to if present-day characters last as long as beer? I'm betting on the noun "mirren" for a woman who remains attractive without resorting to plastic surgery, and the verb "blatter" for someone who besmirches the honour of football.