Consumers opting out of direct marketing messages by sending a STOP reply SMS are often charged by their networks for the pleasure. So consumers are paying to reject the unwanted advances of spammers. But before (like me) you cry foul in terms of the Consumer Protection Act, you need to know that it's a bit complicated.The act allows direct marketing to be sent without consent as long as the consumer is given the option to opt out. It also says "no person may charge a consumer a fee" for exercising their right to opt out. So that means the person sending the marketing spam must pick up the cost of the opt-out reply? Not necessarily.The National Consumer Commission told me that although nobody could charge a fee for opting out, the cost to a consumer of communicating that demand was not covered by the act.Shouldn't the issue be referred to the Consumer Tribunal for clarity?"It is our submission that to say the act provides for free communication of the demand [opt-out] will be to infer a meaning that is not specifically provided for," said spokesman Trevor Hattingh. I have to reply in order to rescind consent I never gave in the first place. And I have to pay for that reply? So much for that. But there's hope for consumers yet, and it comes from two unlikely quarters.The first is the Wireless Application Service Providers' Association, which represents companies that link mobile content, products and services to cellphone users. These include senders of bulk SMSes. The association's code of conduct doesn't allow for the sending of any messages without the prior consent of the consumer. And the service providers (and their clients) have to provide proof of such consent if asked to do so. If not forthcoming, a consumer can lodge a complaint, which the association is bound to investigate.So the industry's own code, ironically, seems to offer consumers more protection against unsolicited marketing than the act.Then there's the Direct Marketing Association of South Africa, which runs a national opt-out registry (for registering a pre-emptive block) and supports a consumer's right not be to charged for opt-out by the networks.Executive director David Dickens said the body was working with networks, service providers and bulk SMS senders to make it "common practice" that consumers not be charged to opt out.It shouldn't be too hard, considering Cell C, Vodacom and MTN all offer either a zero-rated number or a reverse-billing option for the service providers. Most, but not all, bulk direct marketing SMSes are channelled through these.Tips for zapping the mobile menace at sourceAt Cell C, as long as messages originate through its zero-rated line, it doesn't charge the consumer or the service provider for replies - although it is about to change to a system where the service provider picks up the bill.Vodacom and MTN don't charge consumers on the reverse billing option, but bill service providers, at 50c and 35c a reply, respectively.Trouble is that not all service providers and other bulk SMS senders use the service, leaving a lot of SMSes originating from a standard-rate number where consumers are billed accordingly.Peter Streicher, MD of BulkSMS.com, and a member of the Wireless Application Service Providers' Association, said few of his clients opted for reverse billing. It was favoured mainly by businesses doing surveys. In these cases, "this cost is passed on to the company sending the messages. This can be problematic, as the company has no control over the number of reply messages," he said. "A single phone could reply with thousands of messages."The association's general manager, Ilonka Badenhorst, said opt-out should be free for consumers - "but we need a uniform solution from the networks to achieve this . Icasa [the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa] should review the matter."Johannesburg reader John Paterson was livid when he received an SMS from Truworths offering him the chance to open an account, with the option to opt out. He's not a Truworths customer and said he never consented to any marketing from it. "I have to reply in order to rescind consent I never gave in the first place," said Paterson. "And I have to pay for that reply? The monetary value is inconsequential; it's the principle."Truworths marketing director Peter Shackleton said Paterson was charged by the network, not Truworths. As for consent, he said firms were permitted to market to a consumer so long as the consumer had the option to opt out.On the face of it, the service provider sending the Truworths messages could well be in breach of the association's code for apparently marketing to a consumer without consent.Paterson's complaint to the association, lodged this week, should determine that. Contact Megan Power E-mail: consumer@sundaytimes.co.zaFollow Megan on Twitter: @Power_ReportTune in to PowerFM 98.7's 'Power Breakfast' (DStv audio channel 889) at 8.50am on Monday to hear more from MeganPlease note: Other than in exceptional circumstances, readers sending me complaints must be willing to be identified and photographed.