Call this what it is: Protea backfire.The place for marketing in cricket is on lampposts. It should never be allowed to involve players or coaches or anyone who has a proper job.Cricket SA's marketing went mad before the World Cup. Whoever decided an extravaganza of a squad announcement was required when a simple e-mail would have done exactly the same job should be fired. Or at least have their budget castrated.The same goes for the embarrassment that was the squad's soap opera of a farewell. How much money was wasted on that, and for what exactly? What happened to going to the airport, signing autographs for the supporters who turn up, posing for a few pictures, saying goodbye and getting on the plane?Note that all this was done for a team who had yet to win a World Cup. And what have they returned as? A team who still haven't won a World Cup. Everything changed for Proteas on Big WednesdayWhen the national team finally arrived Down Under, the madness was shifted into a new form - chronic consultantinitus.Already have Allan Donald as your bowling coach? What the hell: have Charl Langeveldt as well. Russell Domingo is your head coach? Why don't we just add Gary Kirsten? That will undermine the coach? Nah, it won't. Oh, and here's Michael Hussey as well. After all, it's not as if you guys have ever been to the Antipodes before, so you have no clue how their pitches are going to play. Remember Mike Horn of the tour to England in 2012? He's back to tell you to climb every mountain. Or something.South Africa's support staff outnumbered their players. In fact, there were times at practice sessions when it was difficult to see the players for the jam stealers. Why all the fervour over mind gamesWhat on earth were they all doing? Did the consultants have consultants?And Philander for Abbott? A bowler who has missed four out of seven games through injury and didn't look in the best of form when he was fit being dragged in to replace someone who got the results for the Proteas in the biggest game in our cricket history? What indefensible folly.None of the above would have hit the radar had the Proteas reached the final. If they had, the over the top, illogical approach would have been held up as the rollercoaster superslide to success.If we weren't all so pissed off with how this Cricket World Cup ended for South Africa it would be funny. One day, when South Africa simply get on with playing cricket, it will be. Until then, expect more tears.