The same people who revere him, however, will call him "Saint Paddy" at the drop of a beer mat. Perhaps calling an Irishman Paddy is not quite as insulting as it used to be (particularly if his name is actually Patrick), but some can still be sensitive.I never met my uncle Patrick, because he died in Egypt during World War 2. He was known as Pat (never Paddy). His brother Michael (known as Mick) fought in a different battalion, but the two met by chance in Cairo a month before Pat died. It happened to be their mother's birthday, so they sent her a telegram signed "Patmick".The Pedant Class: Legalese under the microscope My mother, a child at the time, recalls my Irish grandfather bemoaning the fact that Patrick had been all the way through school and still couldn't spell his own name, but my grandmother was convinced her sons had met, and she was right.This family story might account for my long-held misapprehension that there were two saints responsible for Ireland's welfare. Books always spoke of a "patron saint", which, I logically assumed, meant the brother saints Pat and Ron.Patron, meaning "protector" comes from the Latin patronus, a word familiar to Harry Potter patrons. It can also mean a person who gives his custom to a particular establishment or who spends money on, say, the arts. Protection is still involved (not in the Tony Soprano sense) because owners of establishments and those in the arts rely on patrons to protect them from penury.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler Patrick and his opposite number Patricia also have Latin roots. Both names come from patricius, meaning "a member of the ancient Roman noble order". In English this became "patrician", which describes someone dignified and fatherly - or simply old and important, which is not always the same thing.The ancient Roman senators were known as patres (fathers), which is how this happened. As it happens, Saint Patrick was a Roman. Not geographically (most accounts have him born somewhere on that slightly larger island located to the east of Ireland) but politically. He was Roman because Britain was a Roman colony, and he would have been sent to Ireland by the Bishop of Rome to make Romans of the heathen.Paddy is another kettle of rice. The Online Etymology Dictionary tells us that the word for rice field comes from the Malay word padi, which refers to rice still in its husk. In the 1940s this became an English term for the place where rice grows. It is therefore entirely redundant to call a paddy field (paddy for short) a "rice paddy", just as it is redundant to say "PIN number".The Irish Paddy has nothing to do with rice. It is a shortening of the variant Irish spellings of Patrick (Podraig, Padraig or Padraic).Saint Paddy has given us many useful words. Without him we would have no patricide or patriots, never mind a pat answer.So it is fitting that Saint Patrick's Day is celebrated all over the world by all sorts of people with no Irish connections whatsoever.Ireland and South Africa have quite a lot in common, however. Apart from parallels in our history and the fact that we can (mostly) laugh at ourselves, we are eternally linked by an important word of Irish origin, a word now equally at home in both countries. That word is "shebeen".E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follower her on Twitter @deGrootS1