He was right. I did everything except burst into applause. I asked him question after rapturous question. Was working at Google like being on a fun waterslide all day? What's this I hear about bowls of sweets everywhere? Did everyone make up their inventions while driving around in their personalised golf carts, or did they save them for when they were in their special offices? Be straight with me: did everyone have their own trampoline or were they obliged to share?His answers were a let-down. Nevertheless, I was thrilled. It was probably the main reason I started dating him. I saw it as repaying a favour.</img>Google at your fingertips Image: ThinkstockGoogle at your fingertips Image: ThinkstockWhat I am trying to say is that I really love Google. I would be bereft without it. I look stuff up constantly. A day without Google Maps is a day that I get lost. I find it creepy when people have an e-mail account other than Gmail. I don't understand what Google Glass is, but I'm sure I love it. And best of all, I love Google Trends.Google Trends shows the popularity of different search terms over time, via graphs, allowing the comparison of multiple terms at once. Type in "rabbits", for instance, and you get a graph showing that people care less about rabbits than ever. Type in "pigs", and you will be startled to note that with every year, our interest in pigs becomes keener. The pigs are beating the rabbits in the race to our hearts.Google Trends is mostly used by marketers, and people who want to write depressing articles with search statistics showing that the world is getting sadder and angrier. This is wrong. Its true purpose is to remind us that people are weird beyond imagining. We want to know all kinds of things. We want very specific instructions.The Conch: Facebook's made high-school reunions obsoleteFor instance, in South Africa, the top three "how to" search terms for 2014 are: "how to rock"; "how to bath"; and "how to WhatsApp". Also on this list is "how to smoke". For 2013, No 1 is "how to twerk". Coming in at No 8 is "how to skip". Is this possible? I badly want it to be. Think of everyone you've ever met. The data tells us at least one of them has, at some point, nervously typed "how to skip" into Google and waited with pounding heart for instructions.In 2014, the top "what is" search term was "what is Ebola?" In 2013, No 1 was "what is twerking?" Also trending: "what is Instagram?", "what is Christmas?", and "what is sake?" Appropriately, No 10 was "what is research?" If you don't find this amazing, I have nothing to offer you.The Google guy and I didn't go out for very long. Mutual admiration for an Internet search engine is not a solid foundation for a relationship. Still, it was glorious while it lasted.Follow the author of this article, Rosa Lyster, on Twitter: @rosalyster.