Almost all the sayings associated with the word "home" - and there are myriad - require the having of a home. A new girlfriend might be nothing to write home about, but you need a home to which not to write in order to use the expression. You can't keep the home fires burning without a home (or a fireplace), you can't really be a homemaker in a cardboard box, and where on earth is a child without a home supposed to do its homework? Asking an itinerant person what their home language is might be similarly fraught with difficulty.The Pedant Class: Who said kilts and owls had nothing in common?Things are a little different in sport, where you can hit a home run, enter the home straight or be home free, and in war, where you can talk about the home front regardless of whether you have a dwelling behind it. Even those who sleep under hedges (and hedgehogs) can have a home town, and presumably one can be homesick for said town without owning a house in it."Homesick" is a funny old word. Taken literally, it should mean to be sick of one's home, or to be sick at home, which is better than being sick on an aeroplane or in a cinema. The word was spewed into English in around 1756, says the Online Etymology Dictionary. It comes from the German heimweh, a portmanteau word meaning "home pain" or "home woe", which in turn was derived from a term coined in a Swiss dialect that meant to long for the mountains. Perhaps the Swiss suffer from the opposite of altitude sickness and become bilious in the lowlands.Another paradoxical word is "homemade". It is all very well to use it on those cakes in blown-up plastic bags made in the homes of home bakers and taken to home industry shops to be sold to people who take them home to eat, but whenever I see it on a restaurant menu I feel sorry for the poor chef. The inference is that he has to make homemade burgers at his home and then bring them to the restaurant to be cooked. Does his work never end?</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler Then there are home movies. When last did you hear that word? It used to refer to short films, shot on 8mm or 16mm film. These usually involved shaky footage of children running around on a lawn or playing in a paddling pool. Friends would be invited to the filmmaker's home to watch the masterpiece projected onto the wall or onto a sheet hung from the pelmet and secured by heavy books such as Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management. Invariably the projector would break down or the film would catch fire, or both, but apart from the equipment and the variety of viewing material, not much has changed on the home entertainment front."Homespun" is another word that has fallen out of use, at least in its original meaning. Hardly anyone spins their own yarn at home these days, although if you're prepared to listen you can still hear a homespun yarn here and there.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follower her on Twitter @deGrootS1