Other than witnessing a few entangled canines as a child, I'd never heard of a verified human entanglement. Before medical professionals and other general geeks descend upon me like parliamentary waiters on the EFF, I'm well aware that there is a natural, if extremely rare, condition called "penis captivus" that occurs when the vaginal walls clamp tight, making withdrawal impossible. Yeoville husband 'locks' cheating wife's vagina with muti, lover gets stuck I'm not making this up. The British Medical Journal recorded this phenomenon for the first time in 1979. Of course, my fellow Zulus and I have long been aware of the clamping effect. We've known for centuries that it is caused by human agency via the application of a concoction of herbs in a process called ukucupha umfazi (setting a wife trap). It is not unusual to hear someone say, "Hlukana nalentombazane yakwaSithole. Iqome inyanga. Icushiwe." (Steer clear of that Sithole woman. Her boyfriend is a traditional healer and he's set a trap on her.)Laugh if you want, but I personally wouldn't want to try to demonstrate that ukucupha umfazi is a myth. Murphy's Law dictates that the day you're trapped would be the day you forgot to moisturise your behind and now you're stuck and the paramedics are giggling at your ashy butt.I have never consulted an inyanga or sangoma. The extent of my dabbling in the supernatural has been participating in the Eucharist during Holy Mass when we Catholics turn a thin wafer and a sip of sherry into the body and blood of Christ, which we then consume. Oh, and I have participated in chatting to abaphansi (the ancestors) while inhaling incense, over a bowl of goat's blood. Don't ask me why, but that's different to the sort of things sangomas get up to. Just take my word for it.Imbecility is hard-wired into our genesDespite my lack of experience with actual muti I'm well acquainted with all the different mutis out there, from first-hand anecdotes. For instance, there is a potent muti called isigqabo which imparts upon the user great dignity and presence which makes everyone around them fearful to the point of shaking in their boots.Until 1995, I didn't know that this isigqabo is delivered to the eyebrows after tiny incisions are made between the hairs. That was my first year of teaching in the Cato Ridge area in KwaZulu-Natal. A couple known as only The Beard and The Wig, on account of the hubby's facial hair and the wife's extensive wig collection, would arrive at school and go straight to the bathrooms before making their way to the staff room. It was then that a colleague alerted me to the razor marks on their eyebrows. Their inyanga must have got the isigqabo concentration wrong because the only effect it had on everyone was lots of giggling and pointing.Another muti a former colleague also swore was real is called izintuthwane (ants). She told me that her boyfriend's ex had put this muti in her bed so that whenever she tried to lie down, she would feel a thousand ants crawling all over her skin. When she sat up to investigate, not only would she see no ants but the crawling would cease immediately.Another famous muti is called ubhekaminangedwa (look only at me). This is reputed to be in widespread use. It is a powder that is sprinkled on a husband's food and immediately cures him of a roving eye, making him love only his wife. I personally think the minister of health, Aaron Motsoaledi, needs to investigate the possibility of fortifying all our maize meal and flour with ubhekaminangedwa, which would solve many of our social ills. I have encouraged Mrs N to keep a "special" container of Aromat in our kitchen so that I can administer it even when she's away on business for a few days.Funerals are not about the dead (and besides nobody likes a bossy corpse)Another great, positive muti that I think everyone in South Africa should get their hands on is called hambabuya, which is fanakalo for "go but come back".My mom, who grew up in Verulam, north of Durban, insists that some of the greatest inyangas she knows were of Indian descent. Apparently, if someone burgled your house, you sourced hambabuya from one of them and when you woke up the following morning, the thief would be standing at the gate with all your stolen goods, in a dazed stupor.There is a rumour doing the rounds that uNxamalala (President Jacob Zuma) consults a really powerful inyanga who is a one-eyed cyclops. According to the grapevine, each time Zuma's back is up against the wall over some scandal or other, he uses uzigwazangowakhe (self sabotage), a muti that sets the leader of the DA, Helen Zille, off on inexplicable suicide missions, diverting attention from the president. There is merit in the rumours.In the middle of Guptagate, Zille inexplicably pulled an Mbeki and went down a suicidal Aids-dissident path. More recently, with the president reeling from the "pay back the money" saga and facing a motion of no-confidence, she decided to declare a war on the media which she has no hope of winning.I shudder to think what might happen should the president get into a really sticky situation. You don't suppose she would release a sex tape and then go on one of her notorious Twitter rants, defending it, do you? Be very afraid of muti.E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo.Ngcobo's book Eat, Drink &amp; Blame the Ancestors, a collection of Sunday Times columns (Two Dogs &amp; Sunday Times Books, R190), is available now.