Whenever I'm in the supermarket, guess who the security man will follow from aisle to aisle? None other than yours truly. I think it's a case of Murphy's law working on me - or is it against me? - where if something is going to happen, the victim is likely to be someone like me.Then Cape Town's very swish shopping mall, Century City, announces they will have random checks on patrons to see if they are carrying weapons - the centre has had a spate of armed robberies they want to curb. Guess who's going to be searched? It is yours truly, out of the hundreds of people milling around.What do kleptomaniacs look like? They look like me. Armed robbers too. I've tried dressing either up or down in the hope that I look less conspicuous, but it hasn't helped. Where possible, I carry a small handbag rather than a large holdall so that it doesn't look like I'm about to stuff microwaves and kettles into my bag.This is why I empathised with a Chinese woman who was recently detained at Cape Town International Airport for more than 30 days. That could have been me, I said, because I have "the face" for that kind of thing.On that fateful November day that she was detained, the Chinese lady was with her husband who was let through by immigration authorities. Wasn't that strange - working on the assumption that the couple had prepared their documents together? Surely there would have been little difference between what they presented to officials for entry?According to what we read in the newspapers, the Chinese saga was nothing more than a case of the woman being profiled or singled out as suspicious. Maybe she fidgeted unnecessarily in the queue. I wonder if it was her makeup? She was, after all, lovely to look at. Thankfully she didn't have dreadlocks because that's what most troublemakers have, isn't it?Dreadlocks? That's why profiling can be so far-fetched. It is pretty much a subjective thing that everyone does. I once witnessed a woman with big buttocks wearing leggings who was shoplifting. Since then I've become suspicious of women fitting that description.Radio host Udo Carelse, during a recent idle moment as he gazed down at passersby from his Sandton offices, noted that most women seemed to be wearing leggings. "Six out of 10 women" was his estimation. Based on my warped interpretation of what constitutes a thief, that would label most women as crooks, which is far from the truth.I've heard of people being arrested by police for being a "source of danger to others" as they are merrily walking down the street. Since I haven't been arrested yet I'm more concerned about some waiters we have in our midst and how they estimate or assess some of us.I've treated white friends for coffee. The waiter inevitably gives the bill to my guest. What has the waiter deduced about me? Does it mean those with "the face" can't pay? Go figure.