According to Ethnologue, there are more than 7 000 distinct living languages in the world. That's not counting Legalese, the one that causes the most trouble.There are two major problems with Legalese. The first is that, because it sometimes bears a passing resemblance to another language (for the purposes of this column, let us call that language English), speakers of that language are expected to be able to understand it. But we don't. The second is that lawyers, the only ones who do understand it, are expected to be able to translate Legalese into plain English. But they (mostly) can't.The Pedant Class: All respect goes to Saint PatrickLegalese is further complicated by the insertion of Latin words and phrases. Take inter alia, for example, oft heard in American legal dramas. West's Encyclopedia of American Law clarifies this as follows: "Among other things, a phrase used in pleading to designate that a particular statute set out therein is only a part of the statute that is relevant to the facts of the lawsuit and not the entire statute ... also used when reporting court decisions to indicate that there were other rulings made by the court but only a particular holding of the case is cited."Maybe I'm having an off day, but that hurts my head. Which is why I admire lawyers for being able to make, interpret and apply laws that look like cuneiform to the rest of us. But I also applaud organisations such as Clarity, The Plain Language Association, and, in South Africa, a company called Simplified, whose goal is to obliterate legal jargon.In South Africa, I am told by a Legalese-speaking friend, it is the law that legal documents must be comprehensible to non-Legalese speakers. I have not been able to find the statute of the law in which this is stated. I wonder if it is written in Legalese?It would be easy to say let's ditch all the Latin and heretoforeunders and simply say everything plainly, but this is where attempts to eradicate Legalese fall down.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler A famous example, attributed to US counsel Robert Mundheim, goes like this: "The ordinary human being, wishing to give an orange to a friend, will say, 'Here, take this orange'. A lawyer, to do the same thing, says something like this: 'Know all men by these presents that I hereby give, grant, bargain, sell, release, convey, transfer, and quitclaim all my right, title, interest, benefit, and use whatever in, of, and concerning this chattel, otherwise known as an orange or Citrus aurantium, together with all the appurtenances thereto of skin, pulp, pip, rind, seeds, and juice, to have and to hold the said orange together with its skin, pulp, pip, rind, seeds, and juice for his own use ...'"There's more, but I'll spare you. The point is that without Legalese, disputes may arise. What if the person to whom the orange was given spits out a pip which grows into a tree and bears oranges, and after his death the descendant of the person who gave away the orange lays claim to the fruit of the tree because no one specified to whom the pips belonged?Simplicity is to be applauded, but sometimes complexity is necessary. We need Legalese, and if we are to know our oranges from our inter alias, we also need lawyers.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follower her on Twitter @deGrootS1