Let's suppose Bezkat, the village idiot, was caught mounting your uncle Nurik's goat, the sole source of fresh milk in your household. And let's assume everyone started complaining that the milk tasted rancid as a result of the unfortunate incident. Back in the day, you had to ride your camel all the way to Shubarkuduk to relay the news to him and ask for funds for a replacement furry dairy dispenser. Now, if this incident occurred in 2015, your 15-year-old daughter would simply send Uncle Nurik a Whatsapp that read: "hud. omg. bezkat totes ruined da goat. snd anada 1. smh" and your family would be enjoying fresh goat milk again in no time.That's my long-winded way of boasting that I am one of those relics who predate mobile-phone technology. The Mxit/Whatsapp /BBM/Instagram/DM/Skype generation makes me sick with their incessant bleating, on and on, about the difficulty of maintaining long-distance relationships. What are they talking about?Do you suffer from a technophobia affliction?I remember when communicating with someone a mere 30km away was a tedious exercise in patience and dedication. I was already 15 years old by the time we got a regular landline telephone in my house, circa 1988. Our phone service was perpetually suspended, although I reject the accusation that this was due to regular four-hour calls to Umlazi where my girlfriend lived. Bearded tokoloshes used our phone while we slept, I insisted.But what this meant was that to facilitate a date to catch a double-header at Shiraz Cinema on Durban's Victoria Street, I had to receive calls at a neighbour's house or call my girl's neighbour's house. This led to situations where you'd be holding on while a child ran to call the love of your life and you'd overhear conversations that went like: "There's some guy on the line who's waiting to talk to that Mkhize girl from next door who is dating Spikili, the taxi driver. Shem." ("Shem" is the township equivalent of "poor thing".)But it didn't end there. After biting your lip about the Spikili situation, you'd quickly set up a meeting point. "12pm. The Workshop bus terminal. The broken seat next to the Chesterville stop." While seemingly excessively exact, this sort of detail was a much bigger deal back then than it is today. Now you can agree to vague coordinates such as, "Melville, 9pm-ish" and then finesse the exact details via text or a quick call. I remember when communicating with someone a mere 30km away was a tedious exercise in patience and dedication. Back then "where and when" was a do-or-die detail. Predictably, come 12h13 you'd still be sitting on the broken seat at The Workshop without any sign of the love of your life. 12h47, no luck. And then you'd leave the agreed-upon time to make a dash for the public phones next to the Chicken Licken. "Sorry, she left half an hour ago saying she was going to The Workshop."Damn! So you rush back to the bus terminal. No sign of her. Finally, around 14h00, you abort mission and go home. Of course, when you arrive home your mom is in the kitchen stirring away at a bean curry, absent-mindedly muttering something about "your girlfriend called just before 1pm saying she was waiting for you at The Workshop bus station".It's sad that we're no longer mean to each other in personAaargh! She arrived while you'd darted off to call her! And this is how it came to pass that I invented the Thirty Minute Interval Rule. After the initial half an hour of waiting, all parties would report to the agreed-upon spot every 30 minutes on the dot to check if the other party had arrived. That way, the waiting party could get comfort breaks and even grab a strawberry ice cream to while away the time.Now, you might think this is frivolity of the highest order. Guilty as charged. But consider the case of the wife of a Western Deep miner who has just missed her first period - but the miner was last home in December. It might be in her best interest to ensure that he comes home for Passover to engage in conjugal activities so that come November and a baby is born no eyebrows are raised. In the pre-mobile era, such arrangements were difficult to organise. Letters took too long to convey the urgent nature of such situations.If you're still not convinced that my generation had it bad, consider this story. University residence. The guy in front of me inserts his R2 coin and asks for his girlfriend, Nosipho.Her brother on the other end responds with, "What do you want with her?", at which point the guy mumbles something about a study group they're in. The brother persists with the "What do you want with her?" line of questioning until the guy loses his cool and responds, "Njengoba ungafuni ngiyihlabe ingane yakini, uzoyihlaba wena yini?", which means, "So you don't want me to [rude word for coitus] your sister. Are you planning to do it yourself?"I rest my case.E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcoboNgcobo's book Eat, Drink &amp; Blame the Ancestors, a collection of Sunday Times columns (Two Dogs &amp; Sunday Times Books, R190), is available now.