There's just one problem. I already know everything about their lives - and they know everything about mine.Facebook's popularity started around the time I left high school. Classmates who I thought I'd never see again in a hundred years (honestly, 10 years felt like forever away) befriended me on the then-shiny-and-new network almost a decade ago. Via the occasional "likes", birthday wishes, congratulations and Candy Crush spams, we've managed to form meaningful, if virtual, adult relationships.</img>Man browsing Facebook on an Ipad. Image: ThinkstockMan browsing Facebook on an Ipad. Image: ThinkstockMany of them are now married. Some I defriended by accident because I didn't recognise their new names and adult faces and thought they were strangers. I can't find them again because I don't know what their new names are.Others are moms and dads who fill up my newsfeed with photos of their babies feeding and abluting and sleeping and farting. Still others are Successful People making lots of money and sharing their latest money-making, Successful-People thoughts.So what'll we talk about when we see each other, since Facebook has made the high-school reunion obsolete? Your wedding story won't sound half as interesting now that I know you had mini Moroccan chicken puffs and sausage rolls on your menu and the bridal gown photographs are not a surprise anymore because I already know it was the perfect mix of lace and tulle.I know all this because your photo album titled, "I'm No Longer Single, Bitches!" told me.Dating was tricker when you couldn't textWe can only blame Facebook for killing the mystery and awkwardness of the high school reunion. Most importantly, we've also been robbed of a priceless opportunity to be judgmental in person.So I plan to keep some things to myself this year, and maintain a Facebook silence. This will help my old friends to bring back the good old days of face-to-face meanness when we meet. I challenge you to do the same.When did we become so uncivilised? Why did we work so hard to get our worlds looking sensible and more or less adult only to disrespect each other by sniggering at each other, all alone, from behind computers and smartphones?Have the decency to share a sparkling cider with me and giggle at my life choices as we listen to the Sugababes, all clad in oversized name tags.Come on. It's time to step up and be the change you want to judge in the world.