But when you do, note their skin colour. I know, I know. Since Madiba donned that jersey number 6 on June 24 1995, we've all been absolutely colour blind and have been holding hands in perfect harmony. Still, indulge me.You see, some months ago the missus and I were driving on the N3 between Durban and Maritzburg when she remarked, "Funny. Most of the black folks are wearing suits, ties, formal dresses and hats. Most of the white folks are in T-shirts, vests and baseball caps and they're towing boats."Now, I don't have a PhD in anthropology from an esteemed institution such as La Salle. Like one of our ambassadors, my certificate was lost in the post. But I still have a theory about what's at play here.You see, most of the darker-hued individuals you'll see being strangled by bow ties, corsets and whatnot are off to a funeral. That's it. That's all me and my ilk ever do on weekends: we spend the whole damn time stickin' people in the ground.Our funerals ceased being about accompanying loved ones to their eternal dirt naps around the time of the Info Scandal. We go to funerals to mingle, catch up on gossip and rub shoulders with government ministers, wealthy tenderpreneurs, Generations actors and other VIPs so that, come Monday, we can casually remark "You know, Gwede said the funniest thing on Saturday", creating for ourselves an aura of political connectedness.Our funerals also serve the purpose of launching the brand-new Range Rover Sport we just "bought" (with obligatory 40% "balloon payment") onto the collective consciousness of society.The first time I attended a white person's funeral, I thought I had landed on another planet. The service was meant to start at 9am and by 8.45am everyone was seated, all 27 of us.At promptly 9am GMT +2, the organ started and everyone rose. Besides the priest, three other people spoke for about three minutes each. Around 9.30am, things were wrapped up and the family proceeded to the crematorium while we went outside to the lawn and grabbed some sandwiches. By 10.15am I was back at my desk at work as if nothing had happened.Oh no, not our funerals. First, you have to show your face at some point during the week before. There will inevitably be a small crowd there, eagerly awaiting the first batch of scones from the kitchen. A few females from the bereaved family will be seated on a mattress with doeks on their bowed heads, next to a lit candle. The mourners will be perched on chairs, facing the women, looking for signs of grief, while humming slow hymns about how death is nothing more than a gateway to the beautiful hereafter.The first big event on the day of the funeral is when the casket is brought out of the house and the mourners can fully appreciate it in its glory. There's always that aunt who takes out a hanky, dabs at her eyes and murmurs approvingly, "At least my uncle's child is going to rest inside a beautiful 'house'. It must have cost at least R80k."And then off to church for the four-hour speech marathon, where speaker after speaker tries to out-clich the last. I will wager half my meagre, post-Nene income that no black KZN funeral since 1960 has ever ended without the words, "Death be not proud"; "Kufa uyinuku" (Death, you're slovenly); or "Akwehlanga lungehlanga" (What's happened has happened).Towards the end of the whole rigmarole comes the most dramatic part, called useyabonwa , the viewing of the body.There is always some woman - a cousin of the deceased, thrice removed - who waits until everyone has seen the body before she approaches. She's already wailing at 200 decibels by the time she's 10m from the front, and then she truly opens her voice box and emits bloodcurdling screams that seem to part the roof of the Lord's house, before she collapses at the feet of the casket stand and is promptly whisked away.In certain circles in my native KZN, we call such people umaythanqaze (one who throws herself violently on the ground). The most curious thing about her is that her grief tends to miraculously dissipate and she's usually spotted later in the "after-tears" tent, gyrating with a Smirnoff Guarana in her hand. And great fun is had by all.Unlike the sandwiches mentioned above, we have a full-on, catered party afterwards, accompanied by the flesh of a recently departed bovine. Piles of pap, seven-colour salad, samp, rice and dumpling fill our plates, and the festivities continue the next day, when the neighbours return to fetch the hats they left behind.It's a pity I don't believe in making stipulations about one's own funeral. I think that's just selfish. Funerals are not about the dead. It's really up to the living to mourn you whichever way they choose. I'd hate for my funeral to become a circus.If there's life after death, I hope the Lord grants me just one wish; about five seconds for me to sit up in my coffin at my funeral and yell at umaythanqaze, "Get your ass off the floor! I'm trying to rest, ferchrissakes!"E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcoboNgcobo's book Eat, Drink &amp; Blame the Ancestors, a collection of Sunday Times columns (Two Dogs &amp; Sunday Times Books, R190), is available now.