This is how you do it. Let's suppose you're having beers with a friend called Thanti Mthanti, who is a PhD candidate in some ber intellectual discipline whose name you can't even pronounce without mumbling like Keanu Reeves. And let's suppose he declares: "The Korean economy stagnated from 1945 as a result of the independence from Japanese colonialism and partly because of the partition along the 38th parallel."Driven by irritation at your woeful ignorance of the geopolitical history of that region and a pressing need to know what the hell the "38th parallel" is, what you should do is retort: "That's an extremely simplistic opinion. The matter was far more complex than just those two factors." I guarantee that within 10 minutes you will have learnt all you need to know about how Korea became an economic powerhouse.That is one of my favourite perks about being a columnist whose page has the "humour" tag. It's the kryptonite I use to shield me from the klipgooiers of the chattering classes. I can come here, pluck excrement from my colon, roll it up into a ball la dung beetle and proceed to argue that there's a nugget of diamond inside. The upside is that by the time the angry e-mails and tweets subside, I know a bit more about the subject I had tackled.It's a bit like walking into a pub at 5.55pm and yelling, "Hey! Free beer at the bar until 6pm!" and then sitting back to enjoy the stampede. Okay, let me illustrate what I'm talking about.Dating was tricker when you couldn't textLast Sunday we're driving the kids to lunch at Wimpy in Lakeside, Benoni, when we spot a family of inbreds. I know they are inbreds because the mother has a child of not more than two years on her lap, in the front seat. She was buckled up but the child was not. The window was open all the way down because this human chimney was generating more smoke from her snot hole than Table Mountain during the recent inferno. And she had stiff competition from the Marlboro Man at the wheel.So, in the event of the ostensibly minuscule chance of a car crash (our roads are famously safe, right?), the toddler would become an airborne projectile and in the aftermath we would have called this "an accident" and said "ag shame, poor parents". But no one can accuse us of inconsistency. When one of us transports a giraffe in the back of an open van and the lazy beast forgets to duck under a bridge, we describe it as a "freak accident" - when it's nothing more than freaking inevitability.Now, the more sensitive among my readers are still reeling from my casual use of the word "inbreds", assuming they didn't stop reading at that point and are busy penning a 2 000-word e-mail to the editor in response to my 800-odd words. After all, "inbred" is a loaded word, especially when used within an East Rand context, where I reside. But the behaviour I witnessed in Benoni is universal in all of Madibaville and the world over.In my defence, I have a theory. Like most people on this globe, most of us are only a few generations from a time when first cousins were fair game. If you're upset with me because you think I'm using the word "inbred" in a derogatory sense, consider the fact that you're actually in very good company.Charles Darwin, the father of the theory of evolution and natural selection, was married to a first cousin, despite his acute appreciation for genetics. They spawned 10 children together. Ditto Albert Einstein, whose wife, Elsa Lowenthal, was not only his first cousin on his maternal side, but also his second cousin on his paternal side. I believe that's called a double entry in accounting circles.You're not impressed with Einstein and Darwin? What about good old Saddam, whose first wife, Sajida, was also his maternal uncle's daughter? Or many of the royal houses of Europe, such as Habsburg or Bourbon-Braganza? And, of course, if you're an adherent of the Judeo-Christian faiths, you will be aware of one of the Lord's favoured sons, Lot, whose wife ended up as a pillar of table salt. He diddled two of his daughters on two successive nights and blamed it on cheap wine. Be very afraid of mutiI don't buy it. I think he was just too lazy to strap up his camel and ride into town to Madame Naomi's brothel in the Sodoma CBD. Zulus even have a colloquial phrase for it - ukuzingela ehhokweni (hunting inside the chicken pen). And when it happens, our solution is (yep, you guessed correctly) to slaughter a goat to ask the ancestors to look the other way.It is therefore my considered opinion that a lot of the moronic behaviour I witnessed last Sunday is purely because we just can't help it.Imbecility is hard-wired into our genes. This is why we guzzle eight beer draughts and get behind steering wheels. It's the reason surgeons take smoke breaks in between operating on lung-cancer patients. And it's also why some among us can be convinced to snack on lawn grass and wash it down with 95 octane in the name of worship. We can't help it.Okay, I have rattled the cage and opened the gate. I now invite the inevitable stampede. Be gentle.E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcoboNgcobo's book Eat, Drink &amp; Blame the Ancestors, a collection of Sunday Times columns (Two Dogs &amp; Sunday Times Books, R190), is available now.