If you have kids and a car and no chauffeur, driving the brood to school is an unavoidable donkey job.Lately I've been wrestling with some deep questions about the school run. For example, I often battle with this one: "Can I get away with this dirty ponytail, again, if I hide it under sunglasses?" Also: "Do I have time to do pick up and throw a sandwich down my throat?"It all starts too early in the morning. It involves a complex, military-style operation to get the whole family up and ready. It requires interacting with people you need to be civil with, shortly after sunrise. Is having a second child sheer madness?And for some, it interrupts the work day. Corporate types block it out in their public calendars, highlighted in yellow for non-negotiable unavailability.So why has this become our reality?There are obvious safety and logistical issues - the world has changed and schools aren't necessarily in our neighbourhoods, as they were when we were kids.It's not unusual for a parent to spend 90 minutes in lunchtime traffic to fetch the kids - and then make up the time working after hours.That's modern madness, surely?Our playschool is 900m away from home. Back when I was little, I trekked a similar distance to my primary school with a gaggle of siblings, cousins and neighbours (it felt like 17km). The same for the rest of the school population, except on rainy days.A colleague of mine recalled a simple method that a friend's dad used for deciding whether to give his kids a lift to school. "If the Cape winter rain extinguished his morning cigarette in the garden, a school run was justified. Otherwise, they were on their bikes." Perhaps the school run is a classic example of the counter-success of middle-class life: how comfort can deprive us As far as I can recall, it was only the rare chubby kid who was driven in regularly. If you arrived by car, your friends would ask whether you were ill. 8 painful 'parenting injuries' to watch out for when you've got a toddlerAnd for us, the unpleasant tractorish grumble of the family's ancient diesel Merc was enough to motivate rising half-an-hour earlier to walk to school in the crisp morning air.Some of us chose to walk to avoid the mortification of being kissed goodbye by parents when our crush might be looking on. And if you were lucky, you shared the walk home with said crush, who might shove you down a grass embankment.Perhaps the school run is a classic example of the counter-success of middle-class life: how comfort can deprive us.Even kids who live on secure lifestyle estates are ferried to the on-site school by nannies in golf carts.What about supervised walks on pavements full of kids going to and from school? It would be fairly safe, get our kids fit, and cut carbon emissions. It could even replace a stay-at-home mum's Pilates class.Sadly, these days there are creepies on every corner, ridiculous drivers, school bags the weight of overnight luggage and extra curricular activities until midnight.But wouldn't it be nice?