Makes: 1 cakeDifficulty: Some effort, 2 hours 20 minutesIngredients:120g (1 cup) cake flour, sifted300g caster sugar14 large egg whites, at room temperature15ml (1 tbsp) warm waterPinch of salt7.5ml (1 tsp) cream of tartar10ml (2 tsp) vanilla extractFrosting:3 large egg whites250g (1 cups) sugar75ml cold waterPinch of cream of tartar5ml (1 tsp) vanilla extractTopping:Coconut flakes No ordinary cheesecake: 3 unbelievably good bakesMethod:1) Preheat the oven to 180 C.2) Using a fine sieve, sift together the flour and 140g of the caster sugar four times. Set aside.3) In a food processor, beat the egg whites with the warm water until foamy. Add the salt, cream of tartar and vanilla extract and beat until soft peaks form, then increase the speed to medium-high. Add the remaining sugar, 1 tbsp at a time, and beat until stiff but not dry. Transfer to a large bowl. 4) Sift in the flour/caster sugar mixture in 6 batches, folding in each addition quickly but gently.5) Pour into an ungreased tube pan with a removable bottom. Smooth the top with a spatula then run a knife through the batter to release any air bubbles. Bake until golden brown and springy to touch, about 35-40 minutes. Invert the pan and let the cake cool for 1 hour.6) Combine all the frosting ingredients in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water and whisk until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture is foamy, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and beat with a stick blender or electric whisk on high speed until glossy, about 7 minutes. Beat in the vanilla. 7) Carefully run a long steel spatula or knife around the inner and outer perimeter of the cake pan to release the cake. Place cake upside down on a plate and, using a long serrated knife, carefully slice off 4cm. Set this layer aside.8) Cut a 2cm wide x 2cm deep channel along the centre of the cake. Spread some frosting in the channel and over the cake. Sprinkle with coconut flakes. 9) Gently place the reserved cake layer on top and ice with the remaining frosting. Sprinkle with extra coconut and serve immediately.