I was reminded of this clever marketing ploy when a hoax about Stikeez was reported on a mainstream news site this week. Stikeez are tiny toys given away by a certain supermarket when shoppers spend a certain amount of money. They have become something of a craze among children. According to another (serious) news item, children influence more than a third of car sales, so just imagine their power at the grocery tills.Back to the evil part. According to an organisation calling itself "South Africans Against Dagga and Satan", Stikeez are the devil's henchmen. SAADS's Facebook post on the subject quotes an "unnamed demonisticologist" who called the plastic figurines "miniature demons...not harmless toys but satanistic fetishes". There is even "hidden-camera footage" of the critters performing a hideous candle-lighting ceremony.If you have a taste for parody of the more absurd variety, you will, as I did, immediately want to know more about this loony club. Their Facebook page reveals that they are led by a person called "Pastoor Hennie" who is constantly abused and exploited by his "followers". They also, to my delight, sell vests with the word "#SLATTERN" emblazoned across the chest. The sales pitch for these fashion items is (the capitals are theirs): "Do you have an untidy, lazy female in your life, bringing scandal and disrepute down on her household? It is your duty to SHAME HER INTO SUBMISSION by ordering her to wear this vest!"PARENTS BEWARE: #STICKEEZ ARE A DEMONISTIC PLOT TO STEAL OUR CHILDREN FOR SATAN!!!Recently, we have been receiving... Posted by South Africans Against Dagga and Satan on Monday, 7 September 2015PARENTS BEWARE: #STICKEEZ ARE A DEMONISTIC PLOT TO STEAL OUR CHILDREN FOR SATAN!!!Recently, we have been receiving...I love a good spoof. Incidentally, the word "spoof" (pronounced to rhyme with "proof", not "woof"), comes from a game. The Online Etymology Dictionary says it was originally spelt "Spouf", named after a game invented in 1884 by British comedian Arthur Roberts. Wikipedia's entry (they spell it "Spoof") says it is a gambling game played in bars, where the player who correctly guesses the number of coins held by his opponent gets a free drink. Or something along those lines.Now, if the name of a bluffing game played by drunkards can become a word we use frequently, might Stikeez follow Spoof into the dictionary? Will we one day spell it in lower case and use it as a synonym for things that lead us into temptation? Modern slang words are older than you'd thinkDon't scoff. If the word becomes popular enough, it may well qualify for official entry to the English lexicon. The fourth edition of the Oxford South African Pocket Dictionary, which will soon be on a shelf near you, proves the lexicographer's point that if you don't purchase a new dictionary every decade or so, you are out of step with modern parlance.One of the new words included in the updated edition is "gees", which in Afrikaans is a ghost, but in English has become a positive word for the kind of spirit that prevails around the television when the Boks are winning.Other indigenous additions include "zef", "mahala", "e-toll" and "flippen". This was once spelt "flipping" and was used as a euphemism for the other F-word, but as its pronunciation evolved, so did its spelling.Pedants may blanch at this seemingly backwards mutation of language, but the people who make the dictionaries have clever tools with which to measure the emergence of new spellings - and once the demons are allowed out of hell, there is no way of persuading them to return.So there it is. I would have paid the flippen e-tolls, but the Stikeez told me not to.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.