In Reynierse is a children s author and food lover who has combined her talent for down-to-earth cooking with her understanding of South African families.Her mission was to make the benefits of a low-carb lifestyle an achievable, budget-friendly reality for her friends and family. The result was Low Carb is Lekker (Struik Lifestyle), a deliciously practical collection of decarbed versions of South Africa s most popular recipes.There are easy low-carb, wheat-free and sugar-free alternatives to family favourites (such as bobotie, macaroni cheese), quick comfort foods (gnocchi, chicken pie) as well as guilt-free treats (malva pudding, chocolate brownies, milk tart).Written by a mom for moms, Low Carb is Lekker celebrates SA home cooking with health-conscious benefits. Also available in Afrikaans.</img> Image: Supplied Image: SuppliedCARROT CAKEOn a low-carb lifestyle, we generally limit the use of underground veggies due to their higher carb content. This recipe (pictured above) has been adapted so that a little bit goes a long way, but you will still have the carrot taste without all the carbs.Yields 16 medium slices at 5 g carbs per slice.Cake:2 Tbsp butter, at room temperature5 Tbsp xylitol4 free-range eggs1 2 cup butter, melted11 2 cups nut meal (almond or pecan)3 4 cup coconut meal2 tsp baking powder1 tsp ground cinnamon1 tsp ground ginger1 4 tsp bicarbonate of soda1 2 cup roughly chopped pecan nuts1 2 cup grated carrots1 cup grated pumpkin1 cup grated yellow patty pansIcing:7 Tbsp butter, at room temperature1 2 x 230 g block cream cheese2 tsp lemon juice2 Tbsp xylitolMethod:1) Preheat the oven to 180 C.2) For the cakes, use an electric mixer to cream the room temperature butter and xylitol together. Add the eggs and melted butter and mix well.3) In a separate bowl, mix the nut meal, coconut meal, baking powder, cinnamon, ginger, bicarbonate of soda and pecans together. Pour in the egg mixture and add the grated veggies, then fold into the dry ingredients.4) Divide the batter between 2 buttered loaf pans and bake for 30 minutes or until the cakes are fairly browned and firm to the touch. Allow to cool in the pan and then turn out.5) For the icing, use an electric mixer to blend all the ingredients together until smooth. Spread over the carrot cakes.</img>Sweet Italian mini meatball soup from 'Low Carb is Lekker', by In Reynierse (Struik Lifestyle). Image: Penguin Random House/Sean CalitzSweet Italian mini meatball soup from 'Low Carb is Lekker', by In Reynierse (Struik Lifestyle). Image: Penguin Random House/Sean CalitzSWEET ITALIAN MINI MEATBALL SOUPIt s like spaghetti bolognaise without the pasta but with the same flavour palette! Bake a lovely low-carb bread to go with this meal and Mamma Mias will echo around your table!Yields 4 servings at 14 g carbs per servingIngredients:2 Tbsp grated Parmesan cheese (optional)21 2 tsp dried mixed herbs (Italian herbs)500 g good quality beef mince4 Tbsp coconut oil or lard1 x 410 g can tomato pur eSalt and pepper to taste (I use garlic and celery flavoured salt)1 Tbsp crushed garlic1 tsp dried thyme2 Tbsp xylitol or a few stevia drops2 3 cups water or Bone Broth1 medium brinjal, diced5 medium baby marrows, diced6 baby plum tomatoes, diced1 onion, diced or 3 spring onions, chopped1 green pepper, dicedGrated mozzarella cheese and chopped fresh chives or parsley to garnish10 cauliflower recipes you'll love even if you're not bantingMethod:1) Mix the Parmesan cheese and 1 2 tsp of the mixed herbs into the mince and roll it into prune-size meatballs.2) Heat 2 Tbsp of the coconut oil in a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan and fry the meatballs until browned on all sides. Add the tomato pur e, salt and pepper, garlic, thyme and xylitol. Let it simmer on medium heat for 7 10 minutes and then add 11 2 cups of the water.3) Preheat the oven grill. Place the brinjal, baby marrows, tomatoes, onion and green pepper on a baking tray with the remaining coconut oil. Char-grill the veggies, stirring once or twice to get more char on the sides.4) Place the char-grilled veggies in a blender or food processor with another 1 2 cup of the water. Give the mix a quick blitz, leaving a third in bigger chunks if you like a chunky, rustic soup. Pur e if you like a smooth soup.5) Add the veggie mixture to the tomato and meatballs and simmer gently for about 10 minutes, adding another cup of water if needed.6) Garnish with grated mozzarella and chopped chives or parsley.Recipes extracted from 'Low Carb is Lekker' by In Reynierse (Struik Lifestyle, R220).