It's a Saturday morning. An electrician is on all fours in my lounge, fiddling with a faulty plug point. There's that clich of the plumber's crack, but this old cartoonish chestnut exists for a reason (this is what I'm thinking, looking directly at the top portion of the guy's butt fissure)."You watching the game today?" he says, looking at the plug point.I panic. What game? I know he means rugby because, this electrician, he's got the arse hair of a man who goes on quad-biking adventures and thinks football is for moffies. I'm also aware that there's no cricket happening."Uh, yes," I say."Who you rooting for?"Already I suspect he knows I have no idea what match he's talking about because the hesitancy in my voice must have alerted his alpha-honed hearing and actually I'm too thin to look like I care about rugby. Also I wear tortoise-shell glasses and had to clear away a pile of books for him to get to the plug point which, if I didn't have these qualities, I probably would have been able to fix myself. It's a fistball World CupNow my main dilemma rests on whether the match he's talking about is between two provincial teams, a Super 12 fixture (I know what Super 12, or 14, is, sort of) or an international between South Africa and someone else. I'm also not sure which of these matches hold the most weight for a bona fide rugby fan. I know the Springboks are, like, super important but maybe it's the flaming Currie Cup final (I think it's still called this?) between the Blue Bulls and the Sharks (as far as I'm aware the two biggest teams/rivals in SA rugby?) and me saying, "Who do you think?" is some kind of snide allusion to class and language and that I've greatly offended him."It's a given, isn't it?" he says, prostrately. "I mean, why support the losers? Ha ha.""Exactly," I say, cartwheeling with relief.And that's it. Incident closed. The guy finishes the job, we shake hands firmly like real men do and, just before he steps out of the front door, I tell him to enjoy the game, just like real men do.This episode is just the most recent in a string of potentially hazardous encounters that my complete disinterest in rugby has landed me in over the years. It's also an example of how it's just assumed that if you're a South African man, you must love rugby.As with most of life's prejudices, the you're-not-a-real-man-because-you-don't-like-rugby one starts in high school. I recall being forced to play the game by my school's nasty, ex-Rhodesian rugby coach and being socially penalised for my reluctance to put my head between other boys' legs and chase an oblong ball on some dried-up kikuyu every Wednesday and Saturday.I briefly played rugby in Grade 8, swept along in a Deep-Heated haze of prepubescent desperation to "fit in". But after a few matches (including a traumatic one against a school with boys bigger than my father), I decided I didn't like the game. I didn't want to pass a ball backwards. I didn't want to wear starched white shorts on a windy August morning. I didn't want to be shunted to the ground by some horrible freckled gorilla from the East Rand.Get your free e-book on SA rugbyAnd so I did what other boys like me did - I threw away any chance of popularity and sex before the age of 19 by joining the hockey team. Actually, it wasn't really a team. We never played any matches. It was just a handful of ectomorphs playing with their sticks and balls on the bottom field a couple of times a week, all over the sound of cheering and horny girlish screams coming from the rugby field on the other side of the school. We were the expelled.My disregard for rugby was/is also a result of genetics. I am tall and naturally lean. But being a good long-distance runner does nothing for you in school. Similarly, out of school, having knowledge of the nuances of professional cycling (and having the ideal physique to partake in said sport at a competitive level) has no cachet among the kind of men who dress in Woolworths' Supersport range and, upon receiving the biography of a Victor Matfield for Christmas, are in no way offended by the gesture.I'm not saying that everyone who enjoys rugby wears beige chinos from the Supersport range and gave Captain In The Cauldron: The John Smith Story a five-star rating on goodreads.com, but what I am saying is: "I am a South African male and, believe it or not, I do not like rugby." I find it boring. I find parents shouting at their sons and swearing at the ref at those cruel, high-pressure private school rugby festivals repugnant. I'm also wary of the way the game inculcates the kind of macho posturing and boytjie ethos that applauds aggression and bench-press contests at gym, and perpetuates the marketed ideal of the South African man as an all-braaing, all-beering, all-green-jersey-wearing entity.I'm sure the 2015 Rugby World Cup will be an amazing spectacle. I also hope we do well, purely from a patriotic view. But it's time to stop making the mistake of assuming that between September 18 and October 31 any man who dares to call himself a man in this country will be wearing his green jersey to the mall and shouting at his television while he digests boerewors and spills beer on the couch.Because it's not the case. Some of us will always be hockey players.