Perfumed plants are easy to grow, so add a selection to your flowerbeds, window boxes or pots. Here are three of our favourites JasmineJasmine thrives in warmer climates. With over 300 Jasminum species, the star-shaped clusters of white flowers emit an exotic, sweet fragrance. South Africa has a number of jasmine varieties, including starry wild jasmine (Jasminum multipartitum), bushveld jasmine (Jasminum breviflorum), and South African jasmine (Jasminum angulare).RosesWhile landscaped rose gardens remain popular, incorporating roses in a mixed bed with herbs, shrubs and other aromatic plants is a good way to maximise the beauty and aroma of the garden. The Duftwolke is a modern hybrid tea rose bush with an exotic spicy aroma. Perfume Passion, also a hybrid tea, has a refreshing, fruity fragrance. Roses need at least six hours of full sun a day, so ensure they are positioned in a sunny spot.LavenderLavender is one of the most loved and most versatile herbs, known for its delightful fragrance and therapeutic qualities. English lavender (Lavandula angustifolia) is the most popular variety, with grey leaves and purple, blue and lilac flowers. The hardy bushes grow abundantly in full sun, are great for hedging purposes and are a good accompaniment to roses. French lavender (Lavandula dentata) is grown more as an ornamental plant and has a much gentler smell compared to other varieties. It is characterised by leaves that are greener than grey, with jagged edges. Spanish lavender (Lavandula stoechas) has a shorter, stockier look than its French counterparts, and a far sharper scent.Other irresistibly fragrant flower varieties include peonies, lilies, sweet peas, magnolias, and yesterday, today and tomorrow. Garden Spot Update the look of your patio with this funky wire and glass coffee/side table from Loot.co.za, R3 002. Now's the time to give your spring garden some TLCJane s Delicious Garden is the perfect guide for growing your own organic vegetables whether you have green fingers or not, R285. Exclus1ves.co.za Make authentic wood-fired pizzas in your own home with the Earthfire Pizza Oven, R2 999 (excl accessories). 