They have that Stevie-Wonder-lyrics kind of love. Truly, it's a beautiful thing to witness.Unless you're 10, struggling to sleep and wander into their bedroom. Then it's what I'm told is a primal experience, that shapes you for the rest of your life.My life. I grew up in Lotus River. Like so many communities that were named by what must have been a gang of sniggering, sadistic apartheid town-planners, the name had nothing to do with the reality of living there. It was a canal. It wasn't lotus blossoms wafting downstream. Old car seats, their springs splayed like disembowelled guts, floated down this Lotus River. Curious Kenyan seeks KZN soulmateI had a love-hate relationship with Lotus. I hated running the gauntlet of skollies when I went to the shop. I hated that time I had stones thrown at me by angry girls who heard me speak English to a guy who stopped to chat. I hated the divisions, the inequality, the poverty.I loved toffee apples bought over the open top-half of a kitchen door. I loved street soccer during the World Cup, cricket played on gravel during the Ashes, and tennis played between scrawled boundary lines on the road during Wimbledon. It wasn't until years later, when a friend expressed anxiety at leaving Lotus late at night, that I thought of Lotus as a hectic place.My parents gave us wings, but kept us grounded. Lotus was our home, but the world was our oyster. We were sent to private schools but were warned against coming home with "white ways". We suffered, consequently, from a kind of ghetto snobbery.Which brings me back to my opening. When, in the afternoons, my parents wanted some sexy times, they locked themselves in their room. Our pleas to be let in would simply be met with: "No. We're counting money!"That sufficed. We would leave them to count their money. Rolling around on wads of money on their bed, diving in and out of gold coin towers. Making it rain. And they remained there for ages, so we must have been loaded!We nodded sagely, my brother and I, with the reverence befitting children of our station. They were counting money. My parents' Swiss bank vault of a bedroom had magical powers. We returned to the streets with new eyes. Why, yes, it was a canal, did Venice not have canals? Life on the Lotus Riviera wasn't that bad...Those frequent afternoon-delight sessions had created in us this idea that we were rich. And of course we were. It makes sense to me now. The way we were, and still are.My sense of wealth is directly proportional to my parents' love. My kinda wealth.