BATH The best bath-time products are fun and nourish skin, too. You can't go wrong with products that use gentle cleansers and non-irritating fragrances. Noreva Xerodiane Plus Gentle Foaming Gel, R190, and Uriage Cr me Lavante, R300 for 500ml, are ideal for sensitive skin. Pure Beginnings Organic Kids Fun Time Bubble Bath, R61, contains organic orange peel oil, which has anti-inflammatory properties. Pure Beginnings Organic Kids Fun Time Kids Wash with organic rooibos, R69, is calming and healing. Beaucience Baby Head to Toe Wash with chamomile and bamboo, R50, is moisturising and non-irritating. BODY If the air is dry or your little ones suffer from flaky, itchy skin, apply a soothing balm or cream for extra moisturise after bathing them.Good skincare habits starts young: Sun protection for you little one Beaucience Baby Lotion with organic marula oil, R50, is non-greasy and made from natural botanicals. Uriage Eau Thermale Bari derm Reconstructive Barrier Cream, R170, is great for cracked skin on hands and heels. Oh-Lief Natural Olive Baby-Wax, R82. The moisturising, multipurpose product is great for baby massages. Oh-Lief is one of our favourite natural product brands for kids and adults. Oh-Lief Natural Olive Insect Balm, R72, contains citronella and lemon-grass oil to keep mosquitoes at bay. Oh-Lief Natural Olive Tummy Wax, R99. Good for stretching skin and can also be used by adults for stretchmarks. HAIR A formula that doesn't sting the eyes is first prize. And a conditioner or detangling product makes brushing fuss-free. Tangle Teezer Salon Elite Limited Edition Candy Floss, R230. A must-have for pain-free detangling. L'Or al Professionnel Serie Nature Tendresse Kids Shampoo, R245, is infused with vitamin-rich white peach. L'Or al Professionnel Serie Nature Detangling Cream, R251, leaves hair feeling soft and looking shiny. Johnson's Baby Easy Comb Spray, R30, is a firm favourite for detangling hair. Gary Rom Jack &amp; Jill Children's Shampoo, R225, and Gary Rom Jack &amp; Jill Children's Leave-in Conditioner, R245, are gentle and designed especially for kids.