They can do it weighing in at just 3kg. Parents: "We are going for a natural birth, no drugs, full-term." Child: "Ha, I'm arriving early and in breech, sorry for you." Please keep your claws off my child, CruellaOr before they can walk or talk. Parents: "We are in a routine, getting eight hours of sleep a night." Child: "Ooh, they're back at work. Time to start the separation-anxiety night wakings. Let's get more playtime in. At 3am."And when they have minds of their own. Parents: "No screen time til two years old, and definitely no sugar." Child: "I love this shiny thing. Give it to me!" (Cue tantrum until parent caves).And "I'll only do this potty training if I get a treat after. And make it chocolate."It is humbling.Small people can cut the biggest ego, the most confident know-it-all, down to size in a second.They are almost guaranteed to squash any grand parental ideals, especially those voiced to skeptical friends or family.You know how the karma machine works: say something slightly pretentious, like how you will never let the television baby-sit your child. The comment will be greeted with a raised eyebrow of the all-knowing, experienced lot. "You'll see," they may say to themselves - or out loud, if they want to be annoying.13 things you must do before having childrenI had the ridiculous notion that we would make time to learn another language when the kids arrived. "Ha, try to arrange that between play dates," they mock, while the third supper option of the evening is refused.The thing about falling off your horse, or parenting, is that it brings us all down to the same level, no matter who you may be in the world.The president of the United States will have to deal with teenage angst, too. Have you noticed the greying hair? It isn't only monetary policy that is worrying him.The vegan who hoped to raise free-range, well-rounded children with good manners will experience it with just one visit to a fast-food chain that serves unidentifiable squares of protein, deep fried, offering a free toy made of low-grade plastic. "Why have you been depriving me? Now I'll show you!"The most reserved parent can count the days until the older child shamelessly reveals household secrets in public.From anecdotal evidence, it will be about atrocious bathroom habits, Mom's giant Spanx or that time they walked in on inappropriate cuddling. Of course it will be shared with the ones who you least need to know, such as your priest or their school teacher.Best not to get on the horse in the first place, it hurts when you fall off.Especially when someone who knows is on stand-by to say "I told you so". Follow the author of this article, Shanthini Naidoo, on Twitter: @ShantzN