But the internet isn't responsible for all that. We are. The internet didn't invent being horrible, or shallow, or extremely weird - it just made it easier. It unleashed the forces of darkness already within us. Being an immigration officer is more exciting than you'd thinkNarcissism existed long before Instagram. Self-obsession was a thing before Facebook. People started taking photos of their own boobs the day the camera was invented, probably.And as much as we would like to believe otherwise, the internet did not invent the practice of talking behind someone's back. It did turn it into an art form though. Talking behind someone's back was a joke, before the internet came along. The ability to be anonymous, the possibility of a huge audience, the fact that there is little call for restraint online: all these factors contribute to a heady environment. The internet encourages us to take such passive-aggressive tendencies as we already have, and burnish them to a high, nasty shine.We have all seen it happen: the subtweet that gets out of control; the multi-paragraph status update which details all ways the writer feels that they have been wronged. The real problems begin, however, when someone doesn't understand the rules. You'd think they would remember; there are only two, after all.The first one is easy: no names. You can say whatever you like about someone, as long as their name isn't mentioned. For example: "Why can't SOME PEOPLE WEAR DEODORANT in the OFFICE, it's SUMMER #disgusting #hygiene." Love needs no lotus blossomsWe are talking about plausible deniability here, which leads us to the second rule. Never, ever respond to an anonymous subtweet, or the Facebook equivalent of same. Even if you think the person is talking about you, even if you know the person is talking about you - leave it alone. You will appear crazy, and uncool. You will also be walking into an argument that you cannot win.Let's say you see a status update that looks like this: "I can't read another book about a rich lady going on a voyage of self-discovery." Let's say that you yourself are a rich lady, name of Sylvia, who has recently written a book about your journey to self-awareness, via many expensive swimming lessons. You feel in your bones that this status was directed at you. Here's what you do: nothing. Pretend like you never saw it.The alternative is to ask, querulously, whether the status is meant for you. And guess what the answer will be? No. Plausible deniability. Not everything is about you, Sylvia. Insist that you know otherwise, and you will only dig yourself in further. I have recently witnessed two of these meltdowns on Facebook, and the most remarkable thing about them was how quickly they got out of control. People became incandescent with rage in minutes.The solution is simple. Play by the rules. There are only two, and they are easy to remember. Not everything is about you, Sylvia.