English teachers discourage the use of slang in essays, slashing at it with their red pens until it crawls down a hole. Perhaps they are right - it is after all necessary to learn the dictionary definitions of words such as "radical" before one starts putting them to colloquial use.Defining what is and isn't slang is a tricky endeavour, however. Pedants enraged by the contemporary use of "friend" as a verb might be surprised to learn that it was sometimes used in that sense in the 1600s. "Legit", the slang abbreviation of "legitimate" goes back to the 1500s. And in Victorian times it became legit to friend someone by asking: "Where do you hang out?" What 'Clueless' contributed to the world's vocabulary"Groovy" is a slang word we now tend to associate with Mike Myers in frilly shirts and fake teeth, but it was pressed into use long before the Swinging '60s.I have just read Sarah Waters's flawless novel, The Paying Guests, which is set in 1922 and in which the protagonist says to her mother: "We are getting groovy." She does not mean they have become hepcats with bell-bottoms and bongs. She means they are in a rut and should get out more."Get into the groove" was not always Madonna's instruction to embrace the spirit of the moment. "Groove", from a bunch of European sources associated with pits, caves and graves, was a man-made furrow, first in the earth and later, with the invention of phonograph records, in an album.Once groove became linked with music, it was inevitable that the word groovy would change its stripes and turn from boring to thrilling. Jazz musicians of the 1930s spoke of "being in the groove" to explain the mystical process whereby a player becomes one with the notes he is producing. Whence came "groovy", later perverted by the flower power generation to mean, well, groovy.Every groove has its day, however, and even though vinyl is back in fashion, it is still deeply ungroovy to say groovy. Today's groovy is "dope", another word that has transcended humble origins to become a celebrity.In the US in the early 19th century, "dope" was a thick gravy. Towards the end of the century it became a slang word for the treacle-like form of opium that was smoked. Green's Dictionary of Slang, published in 1886, contains the term "dope fiend", as in a drug user. Musings about misheard lyrics It is easy to follow the line from this to the use of "dope" to describe a stupid person. Walt Disney even borrowed it as a name for the slowest of Snow White's little friends.Later, of course, dope became associated with the green stuff, and along the way it also acquired the definitions of insider knowledge and the act of drugging a racehorse. Never confuse a doping scandal with a dope scandal. One is bad, the other good.It might horrify young users to hear that dope's transformation into a positive adjective ("Those are some dope boots, dude") happened before they were born. Tom Dalzell, author of Vice Slang, wrote an essay called "Getting the dope on 'dope'" for the Oxford Dictionaries blogsite.In it he says: "In 1981, 'dope' made the leap from noun to adjective and, more importantly, from negative connotation to positive connotation, coming to mean excellent in the lexicon of the emerging hip-hop culture."As Dalzell points out, slang (slaptaal or sl ng in Afrikaans) has a singular ability to take bad words and make them good. What will come after groovy, killer, bad, serious and dope? Perhaps one day we will rave: "Wow, those are some ebola boots, dude."E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1