If you think this column is my entry into that non-starter of a debate, you are forgiven. But no, I'm not interested. I've been saying for years that one of my most predominant personality disorders is that my brain is wired to always ignore the important stuff and worry about all the wrong things. Homo naledi: From obscure caveman to global rock starAnd what worries me about the bickering is the number of people who are amazed that so many presumably sane grown-ups reject not only Homo naledi but also the overwhelming body of fossil evidence amassed by palaeontologists over the past 200 years or so - based on the fuzzy feeling that "I'm no grandchild of any ape or monkey".What fascinates me, though, is the number of people who expressed surprise that a "learned man like Dr Mathole Motshekga would hold such ill-informed views". Huh? Even more intriguing is that they went on to enumerate the degrees Dr Motshekga holds; BJuris, LLB, LLM, LLD etcetera. All of them are law degrees and should ostensibly make Dr Motshekga appreciate the nuances and intricacies of elementary biology, genetics and Darwin's theory of evolution and natural selection, yes?The fact that Dr Motshekga had no business making public pronouncements about scientific matters is neither here nor there for me. The man is entitled to his opinions the same way that I'm entitled to my opinions about Nasa's choice of radioisotope thermoelectric generator for the Mars-bound Curiosity Rover of 2012 based on my excellent credentials as an avid Star Trek viewer. I'm just intrigued that people were surprised when the good doctor predictably sounded like he was plucked out of the year 1834 as he went about his rants. Extending that logic, you might as well expect that since Pope Francis seems like a learned man, he should be able to offer intelligent thoughts on which iconic rap album had better lyrical content; Illmatic by Nas or Tupac's All Eyez on Me.I see this type of thinking all the time and I'm not immune to it myself. That's because the human brain is wired in such a way as to seek patterns even where there aren't any. After all, how many times has there been some scandal about someone uttering outrageously racist gibberish and afterwards you hear things like, "I've worked with Mrs G for over 15 years. She is the kindest, most considerate and giving colleague I have ever worked with. I would never have thought she had a racist bone in her body."Whoopi Goldberg said something similar about Mel Gibson after he was recorded wishing that his ex would be sexually assaulted by a "pack of ni**ers". Why? Because I suspect he was kind and charming each time she met him.Some of the worst racists I have encountered were also some of the kindest, most compassionate and God-fearing folks I've ever met. Clearly, kindness and racism are not mutually exclusive attributes. They are not linked genes in the mould of blue eyes and blonde hair. It makes about as much sense as observing, "I cannot believe that a man that tall can sing so well". The one thing has nothing to do with the other. Does humanity deserve the worldwide web?But this is who we are: a desperately-seeking-patterns bunch. For instance: folks in suits and laptop bags are to be trusted and people in jeans, Mohawk haircuts and sneakers are hoodlums. This is despite all the evidence to the contrary. I don't know about you but 90% of people who have stolen money from me have been "decent" people in suits, working from high-rise, air-conditioned offices. These are the people we should be most sceptical of.It is a collective psychological disorder, perhaps the cognitive dissonance Leon Festinger wrote about at length. We generally simply discard all information that does not fit in with what we have already "decided" and keep on cherishing our delusions.It is for this reason that I am happy that the numerous delusions I harbour do not extend to political affiliation. Political affiliations will convince most DA members there is something wrong with all ANC members due to some inherent "ANCness" in the party, and vice versa. EFF members generally just wish everyone else would shut up so that they can be "educated".I'm glad my delusions are confined almost exclusively to sporting allegiances ( Orlando Pirates, Manchester United and Floyd Mayweather opponents suck). That, and my insistence that men who wear boxers are superior to the disgusting men who wear briefs.But back to where we started: the good doctor without any ape ancestors. I don't think any connection should be made between his academic qualifications and his opinions about fossils. That makes as much sense as the connection that spawned dartboards in pubs. Clearly, society thinks it makes sense that inebriated folks should be throwing miniature spears inside a crowded space filled with other sloshed people. LSFind the author on twitter @NdumisoNgcobongcobon@sundaytimes.co.za