As for the "new" species now dubbed Homo naledi, while it lived it was probably too concerned with survival to argue about the finer points of evolutionary theory. But today we have the language to debate such things.The word "fossil" comes from the Latin fodere, meaning "to dig". Since 1736 the word has applied to the geological remains of living organisms (and it only became slang for an old person in the late 1800s). In its early days, however, a fossil could be almost anything that was dug up.Digging into the history of language turns up many interesting fossils. English itself was once in danger of becoming a fossil, in the modern sense of the word: a redundant and archaic thing to be puzzled over and marvelled at in museums.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerOne of my favourite books, The Language Wars by Henry Hitchings, contains a brisk summary of the emergence of English as a common language, and how it almost did not survive. "We like to think of English as an old language," writes Hitchings, "but it is not."The language we speak today has its rudimentary origins in dialects spoken by Germanic tribes who settled in Britain in the fifth century. Subsequent incursions by Scandinavians and others kept the fledgling language in a position of subservience for centuries.Today's Britain is rife with xenophobia, but the anti-immigration lobby forgets that the birthplace of English has oft been under the thumb of foreigners. When Henry IV seized the throne in 1399, he was the first king in more than 300 years to call English his mother tongue - and not all subsequent monarchs have spoken "proper" English to their pet hedgehogs behind closed palace doors.The fact that so many of us speak English today is thanks in part to beer. According to Hitchings, London's brewers were among the first tradesmen to insist on using English in their correspondence. They took their cue from 14th-century workmen who claimed English as their own language of protest against labour laws that were enacted mostly in French.As English usage spread, it began to replace French and Latin as the language of officialdom, and (inevitably) users began to argue about the finer points of grammar and spelling.In today's world, where we pedants have conniptions about the placement of the apostrophe and go mauve in the face when "fair" is misspelt "fare", it is hard to believe there was a time when the dispute was not about the way we use English but about whether English deserved to be used at all. Homo naledi: From obscure caveman to global rock starWhich brings us back to Homo naledi, whose exact place in history was unlikely to be a source of bother when there were berries to be harvested. Homo naledi might have come across fossils while digging for roots, but probably paid these no heed. Until someone digs up a fossilised dictionary we can't be sure, but for now we can assume that Homo naledi had no word for the hobby of caving.I first encountered the word "spelunker" when reading The Hardy Boys novels. It comes from the obsolete word "spelunk", which was used in English in the 1300s to refer to a cave, cavern or vault. The noun "spelunk" goes back to the Greek spelos, a cave. The back-formed verb for the activity practised by cave nuts came into use only in the 1940s.Hardy Boys fans might note that this was two decades after Franklin W Dixon began writing his boys' adventure stories. In fact, Franklin W Dixon did not exist. The books were written under this pen name by a number of ghost writers. They were revised during the 1960s, which is when the word "spelunking" crept in through a crack in the typewriter.Had the Hardy Boys lived in South Africa, they might have been the ones to disturb Homo naledi. If all this tells us anything, it is that there are unexpected riches to be uncovered, in life and in language, wherever you stick your trowel.