 I have always remembered important instances in my life through clothing. I remember what I wore to my Grade 7 dance. I remember what my mother wore when we fetched my dad from the airport. I remember what Christan wore the first time I saw him, Viljoen says, referring to his partner of 14 years, with whom he shares a home and two cats in Greenpoint, Cape Town. In the early 90s I lived in London for a year and a half. I got a job at Joseph, an iconic fashion store attached to a coffee shop, Joe s Cafe. Because of the profile of the cafe, we got really wealthy types and celebs coming in, says Viljoen in his soft-spoken voice. One of the waitresses and I used to play a game we called spot the label . We d try and guess what the customers were wearing. So, when I wasn t at the cafe, I d go to Harrods and literally study the fashion brands, and also try to see how they moved on from season to season so I could pre-empt where they would be going to next. This is the first glimpse into Viljoen s obsessive relationship with fashion.Over two decades later and armed with a wealth of experience, his approach continues to serve him well. To this day, he says, his index finger wagging back and forth for added emphasis, I m still obsessed with stores. Even when I meet people, I can tell where they bought their outfits from, especially the main, big department stores, because I m in there all the time. Josie Borain: SA s first true supermodel has found herself in her fiftiesThe 46-year-old grew up in Johannesburg s West Rand during the 80s, which is hardly what one would ever refer to as South Africa s fashion Mecca, I always wanted to partake in global culture and fashion was the way I got to participate, Viljoen recalls. I used to go to the Flora Centre back then, the first big shopping centre in the West Rand, and there was a huge CNA I went to religiously to read the latest Vogue or GQ. They were probably five-months old by the time they made it to SA. Upon returning from London in the mid- 90s and encountering a lull in the local fashion industry, Viljoen took up spot the label once more. I would go into downtown Joburg and try to find a shoe that looked like the new Prada shoe, or I d get something and alter it and make it look like a Versace or whatever I was into at that point. I was always on this constant hunt. A few years later, Viljoen was unsure about what do to with himself, but certain he didn t want to return to photography, which he had studied prior to his travels. He found his way into styling jobs, which eventually saw him creating work for major retailers and commercial campaigns, and finally, with the help of Sarie editor (then beauty editor) Michelle van Breda, started styling for major fashion titles. But something about freelancing was not the right fit. I got to a point where I realised that I found it difficult to be a freelancer who walks into a project, executes, and then leaves. I get so invested, so involved in whatever I work on, that I find it incredibly difficult to detach, Viljoen says. So then I became fashion editor of De Kat and Tribute. It was a great time for me, creatively. I had no assistant and I worked nonstop. That was more than 15 years ago, and since then, Viljoen has built up a dream CV, having worked as FHM fashion director and winning multiple awards, then working as a trend consultant for a major fashion retailer, before moving on to become Elle fashion director his last stop before joining Sarie and eventually becoming part of Spree s launch team.</img>Chris Viljoen Image: Travys Owen/one LeagueChris Viljoen Image: Travys Owen/one LeagueDuring that period, Viljoen enjoyed the kinds of opportunities most fashion addicts can only fantasise about. While working for De Kat, I went to Paris fashion shows once or twice. One of the first shows I got to see was back in the late 90s at the carousel in Paris, he shares. Anna Wintour was there, Grace Coddington was there. The thrill of that was amazing! ... not to mention, excitement that is still clearly visible in Viljoen s wide-open eyes as he recounts. Then when I got to FHM I got to go regularly. This world that had opened was really just so unbelievable; a fantasy. I saw one of the first Tom Ford shows, I saw the last one when he resigned, I saw John Galliano in Paris. Just incredible! Today, as Spree fashion director, living in the global world social media has opened up, as well as a South Africa with a fashion industry that is a far cry from what he had returned to all those years ago, Viljoen is more excited than ever. I sit almost in the middle of the business. I work with the buying department and my team does a seasonal trend focus along with regular updates. We also assist with range building, marketing initiatives, and visuals; we help with the generation of content for the magazine, newsletters, and Instagram. It is the best place to be, close to the now . I find that extremely exciting. Viljoen s passion for all things now is one that crosses over into his own personal style too. I wear classics and they underpin everything, but I m very trend-oriented. It s important to be of the times, in thinking and dress. I want to look like I live in 2015, a slight pause I don t see how anybody can ever get over fashion. There s so much more to it than meets the eye. I still watch the shows, preferably live, even if they re at 3am in the morning. I am in fashion because I love the idea of the future substantially much more than the idea of the past. VILJOEN ON...Style: I have minimalist intentions, but it always turns into a circus. Almost always wearing black: The older I get the more I realise that the uniform is probably the best way to dress. His favourite designer: Rick Owens, at the moment. The highlight of his career:? Probably the very first show I went to in Paris. It was Christian Lacroix. His fashion obsessions: I have a big thing for shoes. I will pay a lot of money for shoes but I look after them and make sure they last forever. Cape Town vs. Joburg: I love living in Cape Town and I love my life here, but I find it very small. It s a bit of a fishing village. I love Joburg for its exuberance and that everyone is there to make their lives better. This article was originally published in The Edit Man: Spring/Summer '15. This must-read magazine is dedicated to contemporary men's fashion and grooming. Read the full issue now.