CLEANSE This is the most important step in your evening skin routine. A gentle cleanse wipes away the day's dead skin cells, oil and makeup, and preps skin for better absorption of serums and creams. Buys to try: Bobbi Brown Cleansing Oil, R770, includes jasmine flower extract and botanical oils to nourish skin. Garnier Micellar Cleansing Water for Dry/Sensitive Skin, R80, and Garnier Pure Micellar Cleansing Water for Combination/Oily Skin, R80, on shelf from October 2015. The new range from Garnier contains micelles, which act as magnets to trap impurities. The products are also effective makeup removers, without stripping skin. L'Occitane Shea Cleansing Oil, R290, dissolves makeup and is gently fragranced. SERUM To address specific skin concerns such as dehydration or oiliness, add a serum to your evening skincare routine, which is usually when we have a bit more time.If you use a retinol or dark-spots product, apply it in the evening because it generally makes skin more sensitive to the sun. How to become a skincare pro, one face wash at a time Buys to try: Kiehl's Dermatologist Solutions Over-Night Biological Peel, R695, includes urea and sodium hyaluronate, which leaves skin softer, exfoliated and hydrated. Dermalogica Overnight Retinol Repair, R1,350, is sold with a buffer cream to help skin acclimatise to the retinol. SkinCeuticals Resveratrol BE, R2300 for 30ml. The antioxidant resveratrol encourages skin to regenerate and prevents further damage from free radicals while you sleep. A little goes a long way and you'll notice the difference in the morning. Dermalogica Medibac Overnight Clearing Gel, R620, if you feel a pimple emerging. Lanc me Advanced G nifique Youth Activating Serum, R780 for 30ml. Clinical studies reveal an 8% increase in brightness and 10% increase in luminosity in skin after seven days of daily use. Filorga Sleep and Peel Resurfacing Night Cream, R910 for 50ml, includes alpha-hydroxy and beta-hydroxy acids to gently exfoliate skin overnight. MASK Why wash off a mask if you can leave it on your skin overnight? Buys to try: Vichy Aqualia Thermal Night Spa Sleeping Mask, R420. A velvety texture that hydrates skin. La Mer The Lifting and Firming Mask, R3,250, comes with its own brush for an at-home spa-like feel. MOISTURE To finish off your routine, a layer of moisturiser or targeted cream seals in all the goodness from your serum. Spring makeup trends to steal from the catwalk Buys to try: Charlotte Rhys Yum Ruby Grapefruit Pillow Spray, R85, for a final spritz of luxury that can be used on linen and pillows, too. Gatineau Aquamemory Moisture Replenish Cream, R635, contains hyaluronic acid and brown algae extract and helps restore skin's protective film to retain moisture. Elancyl Cellu Slim Intensive Night Slimming Care, R460. A targeted cellulite treatment that is good for fluid retention. Safflower and evening primrose oils hydrate the skin.