I thought I'd ask some clean-speech activists (in other words, some fine local authors) for their thoughts on this matter. The speed with which they responded was, I think, an indication of global word-warming.Paige Nick shares my hatred of "moist", a word as offensive as herpes. "It's just so ... moist," she says. "It comes with a sound effect in my mind, like a sloppy wet kiss. Whenever anyone says it I want to wipe my face."Ndumiso Ngcobo sent me a list of his top offenders: "The poorest of the poor (who's looking out for the just poor?); At grassroots level (slit my throat already); The empowerment of (how about just helping people?); In five minutes' time (as opposed to what - five minutes' height?)."</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerSarah Lotz loathes the word "selfie" and everything it represents. "This is down to the fact that I'm a miserable old fart who can't spell Kardashian," she says, "and because on the two occasions I've engaged in selfie behaviour, the end results made me look like Jeff Goldblum in The Fly."Angela Makholwa can't bear the word "epic". "It has been used and abused, harassed and molested, defaced and degenerated. How did a word with such gravitas turn into a used-up old bum, I ask you? How?"Diane Awerbuck is fierce about the word "homely". "It means 'plain to the point of unattractive'. It does not mean 'domestic' or 'reminds me pleasantly of home'. Unless your family is butt-ugly. Then it quite possibly may."Margie Orford points out the lamentable inadequacy of the word "inappropriate" ... "as in when a man rapes or sexually harasses a woman and then apologises for his 'inappropriate' behaviour".Zukiswa Wanner shudders when she hears "basically", because "when people use it, there is nothing basic about what they're saying. I almost always get the feeling that folks who use that word believe they sound profound when they say it."Claire Robertson would like to restrain reporters from using "force". "It is not the case that the Reserve Bank was forced to hike interest rates because of inflation. It is not the case that police were forced to open fire on men armed with knobkerries when said men rattled their sticks. Every time I come across 'force', it reminds me of when it was so often used hereabouts to justify state violence against the citizenry."Jenny Hobbs cringes at phrases that come up "like ticking metro-nomes" in official speeches: "Each and every one; make it crystal clear; at the end of the day; at this point in time; leave no stone unturned; bring them to book." Digging up our language's rich historyJames Whyle has it in for the word "seemingly", calling it "too damned agglutinated ... 'Seems' has been minding its business and denoting 'appear to be' since the 12th century. Then someone added 'ing' onto it. God knows why. Who would say 'the roast is seeming to be done'? Only an arse, that's who. 'Seems to be done' is the way to go. But the roast is 'appear-to-be+ING+LY done' is a bridge too far and ugly."Finally, the usually tolerant Tim Couzens is moved to thoughts of violence at the migration of "impact" from a noun to a verb. "I refuse to use it other than for the chronic users," he says. "I would like to impact them on the head."When it comes to back-formed verbs, "green" is another villain. Letters from companies offering to "green" my home/office make me see red. Although I have to admit it saves words, being shorter than "make your space less polluted and lessen your negative impact on the environment".A word I really can't stand is "brinjal". I don't know why, there is just something sinister about it. I don't mind "aubergine", but please, never "eggplant". Let us protect eggs, plants, and words.E-mail your thoughts on words and language to degroots@sundaytimes.co.za On Twitter @deGrootS1