They could flog you till you turned black and blue and your grandparents would pay no mind. To add to your plight, your parents were not around to intervene. Not that they would, anyway. Please keep your claws off my child, CruellaDuring these times, some individuals dropped out of school as their "rite of passage" , to the dismay of their grandparents. In between struggling with backaches and failing knees, these seniors had this additional painful burden.Fortunately for them, it could be cured with police intervention. The police officers would haul you out of your bed, into the police van and straight into the classroom. Thanks to them, many would-be dropouts matriculated, eventually graduated, and became the professionals that serve us today. The road to success is truly not an easy one.Every Sunday I was forced to go to church because "there is no reason to not go to church". On Monday morning, my principal would ask who had gone to church the previous day. Those who had not gone would have to explain themselves to the principal.I can still remember proudly standing in front of the entire school during assembly for full attendance - at church. Failing to attend church was a serious offence in those days. Your grandparents had the right to kick you out of the house and everyone in the village would turn a blind eye. Just like that, you were homeless.During school holidays, most of the schoolchildren would visit their parents in the townships or neighbouring villages. The same principal would drive around the village in search of any children playing card and board games; at that time these games were synonymous with gambling. Children are almost guaranteed to squash any grand parental idealsSometimes we would sleep over at a friend's house and a family member would inform your parents about your whereabouts for the evening. We would gather around the elderly, eagerly listening to the tales of their escapades.These days, we raise our children single-handedly. What happened to the upbringing in which everyone - the parents, neighbours, the police, teachers and the principal - was involved?Today we have narrowed parenting down to just the parents. It has become their sole responsibility to protect and teach their children right from wrong and their sole right to discipline them. Even teachers, neighbours and family friends cannot discipline children like they would their own. If they dare try, some might end up jobless, others with criminal records and relationships broken.However, I cannot ignore the fact that times have changed. Danger lurks everywhere. I am frequently jolted by the headlines about teachers, priests, fathers, mothers, brothers and police harming children. The same people I used to turn to, I now turn away from.