Actually, Scrabbleheads love all words containing "q", especially "quiz". Today we associate quiz with a set of questions, or an intellectual jousting contest in an establishment that serves alcohol, but it originally referred to a person.The Online Etymology Dictionary quotes a description from The London Magazine in 1783, which defines a quiz as: "One who thinks, speaks, or acts differently from the rest of the world in general ... each person indiscriminately applying the name of Quiz to every one who differs from himself."The Pedant Class: The difference between bear and bare is a common bugbearThere is a story about "quiz" being painted all over Dublin by an 18th-century theatre manager who bet he could coin a new word. This has largely been discredited, but the word's origins are still murky.No Scrabble player has come forward to claim responsibility for quiz, but they are a close-mouthed species so that doesn't necessarily mean it isn't their fault. (To give them their due, Scrabble players are often the ones who know words such as "quidnunc", which means "a person who gossips" and if you ask me deserves more attention.)"Quibble" sounds as though it should be related to "quiz", given the quibbling that often arises in those alcohol-serving establishments where the quizzical gather to dispute dates and demijohns. But quibble has more in common with quip than it does with quiz, quilt or quagga.Quibble began life as a noun, meaning "a pun or a play on words", which led to its being associated with equivocation in the 1650s, which led in turn to its modern association with trivial argument.Quip is quibble's distant cousin in that it is also thought to have grown sideways from the Latin for "how" or "why" (or, if you prefer, "wherefore"), but quip remained amusing when quibble turned combative.Thanks to my hairdresser's highbrow reading material, I left her salon last Saturday with an education about 17th-century poet George Herbert (and a bottle of very nice shampoo). In Moggi's copy of the Times Literary Supplement was an essay about Herbert, in which mention was made of a poem called The Quip.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerThe poem is Herbert's response to the jibes of those who would have him be a man of the world rather than a man of the cloth. (Essentially, he wished them to burn in hell.) "A quip is a retort, not a witticism," wrote the essayist.I was thrilled to discover this. When I read interviews in which the writer says, "he quipped", in order to tell us the subject was joking, it makes me feel scratchy, in the manner of a cat whose tummy is rubbed when it is not in the mood for a tummy rub."Quip" is not a word most of us would use when telling a story verbally, so why use it in print? More importantly, if what the subject said was patently funny, there is no reason to tell us that they joked, jibed, jested, joshed or japed. If it wasn't funny, calling it a quip will not make it so.Enough quibbling: I was pleased to find this statement about a quip not being a joke after all, because it made the use of the word not only annoying but also wrong.Sadly, I can find no evidence to back up the TLS writer's claim. He might not have found Herbert funny, but a quip seems always to have been a witty or sarcastic comment. If only I could think of one right now.Email your observations on words and language to degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow the author on Twitter: @deGrootS1