Get growing: container gardening for beginnersWHAT TO PLANTNone of us really want to be without the iconic spring heralds, especially hyacinths and daffodils, but there s also the indigenous world to explore. The Eastern Cape forest lily (Veltheimia bracteata) blooms from July, its satiny spires of dusky pink or pale yellow rising from lush dark-green leaves; it s perfect for containers and a good choice for indoor gardeners because it s a shade lover. Small Cape bulbs like Lachenalia and Geissorhiza also make exquisite pot subjects.Less widely grown are pre-rain bulbs of the grasslands, from the gorgeous red paintbrush (Scadoxus puniceus) to diminutive speckled Ledebouria and starry yellow Hypoxis, which come to life as the days begin to lengthen. Once you ve grown these you won t want to be without them, even if it s only two or three small pots. Leave them dry during their dormancy and they will continue to grow and flower year after year, buds or leaves emerging like clockwork to signal the change of season.SECRETS TO SUCCESS April is traditionally spring bulb planting time in South Africa. Plant your bulbs in one part potting soil, one part compost, one part coarse sand, with a little bulb fertiliser. For Cape bulbs, omit the fertiliser and water minimally until the first shoots appear. For exotic bulbs, keep the soil constantly moist, but not waterlogged. Keep your pots in a cool spot until the leaves appear. They then need ample light, preferably part shade outdoors. Bring them indoors when they are about to flower.</img>Hyacinths (pictured) are easy to grow hydroponically, just take care not to let bulb touch the water or it could rot. Image: ThinkstockHyacinths (pictured) are easy to grow hydroponically, just take care not to let bulb touch the water or it could rot. Image: Thinkstock Once indoors, keep pots in bright indirect light to prevent leggy growth and turn them regularly to maintain even growth.GROWING BULBS IN WATERHyacinths and Paperwhite narcissus can be grown successfully in water, which makes a superb feature. Special hyacinth glasses (pictured) are available, but you can grow them in any glass bowl and support them on pebbles. Follow these tips: The water level must be kept just below the base of the bulbs. A piece of charcoal tucked into the pebbles will keep the water sweet. Place the container in a cool, dark spot until the roots are established and then bring it into the light.WHERE TO BUY BULBS Hadeco has a wide range of indigenous as well as exotic bulbs. For indigenous bulbs, visit simplyindigenous.co.za, shirebulbs.co.za and capeseedandbulb.com.