Before psychoactive drugs such as opium, cocaine, marijuana etc became illegal, one could walk into a pharmacy and buy Cocaine Toothache Drops. Now, don't get me wrong: cocaine is a dangerous, highly addictive substance that is very likely to get the average human totally dependent on it. But this is no different from the thousands of perfectly legal drugs that hundreds of millions are hooked on across the globe. Just ask Dr Conrad Murray - infamous supplier of propofol to the King of Pop (RIP).Yes, like riding a bike: the agony of cycling is unforgettableBefore you accuse me of being a "legalise 'em" activist, let me clarify.Humans have been using drugs for fun for at least five millennia that we know of. Archaeologists recently found ceramic bowls as well as tubes for inhaling fumes or powders - probably cohoba, a hallucinogen - which appear to have originated in South America between 100BC and 400BC before being carried 650km to the Caribbean island of Carriacou. Nowadays, we'd call that drug smuggling. But consider how long desperate these people were for their daily fix.In fact, there is a very solid link between religion and the use of drugs to achieve a "higher consciousness". The Hindu god Shiva is said to have given humankind the cannabis plant as a present. And we're all aware of Rastafarians' relationship with "da holy herb".Some say John the Baptist's visions were helped along by his diet of grasshoppers and honey, which produced a powerful hallucinogen that enabled him to speak to the Almighty. Some even accuse Moses of having been higher than Mount Sinai when he chatted with God next to that burning bush. Madness makes a teacher truly memorableI think these are more-than-plausible theories. Connecting to higher powers probably does require one to be in an altered state. Even when they burn mere incense on my annual forays to Holy Mass, I often feel light-headed.As I have shared on these pages many times, I'm quite partial to my tipple . Oh yes, ethanol is a recreational psychoactive drug that elicited the original War on Drugs by our bossy friends in the US during a period called The Prohibition.Of course, all they achieved was the creation of powerful bootlegging cartels and the likes of Al Capone before they saw the error of their ways.Not that booze doesn't have its issues. I once found myself giving a mop a stern lecture about the dangers of Rastafarianism while under the influence. And I may even have humped a pillow in a case of mistaken identity, though the veracity of this story is hotly disputed.I could go on. I could say even animals are hopeless drug addicts. Lemurs get high on millipedes, elephants on marula, horses on locoweed...I could tell you that Benjamin Franklin, Freud, Hemingway and even Van Gogh regularly reached for a higher dimension through narcotics but that would be overkill.My point is that we'll always dabble in substances. The question is whether we should try to cure those who get hooked or throw them in jail while we create drug millionaires in the process.I, personally, look forward to the day we can have casual chats about drugs the way we talk about sugar: "Dude, you do know the recommended daily allowance is one blunt, right? You need help."Find Ngcobo on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo, or e-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za