A good example of what I'm talking about is the expression "I slept like a baby", to convey that one slept peacefully throughout the night.This was clearly coined by some barren fellow who shot blanks throughout his life. Anyone with a child will tell you that "sleeping like a baby" means waking up at two-hour intervals to scream at the top of your lungs, demanding your boob tap or because you've gone to the bathroom inside your Pampers. I should know. I've spent many hours watching the Winter Olympics in the wee hours while feeding one of these time hogs - so much so that I'm even aware there's a sport called curling involving mentally ill individuals sweeping ice with a giant hockey puck for hours at a time. Madness makes a teacher truly memorableI recently discovered yet another idiotic English expression: "It's like riding a bicycle". This saying ostensibly means that something is second nature to you. Whoever came up with this one clearly last rode a bicycle when they were 12.Okay, let me start at the beginning. I was probably at my physical peak around age 22 or so. Back then, I used to dabble in almost any sport: football, tennis, softball and even amateur boxing.As a result, my frame could be described as T-shaped. That means I had broad shoulders, a sinewy torso and toothpick legs. Think Johnny Bravo without the bulk. The best description for my current frame is S-shaped, if you're observing me from the side. I look like a work-in-progress inside a sausage factory.As my seven-year-old puts it: "It's not that you're fat. You just have a chubby tummy and a big behind." The midget has a point. Looking at myself sideways in a full-length mirror reminds me of pictorial depictions of Zulu King Mpande kaSenzangakhona. Nowadays I weigh 85kg but I'm maybe 1.7m tall - if I'm standing on my toes in my stilettoes.Are South Africans permanently pissed-off?In the interests of saving my marriage, I have decided to start cycling to lose the extra 20kg to which the missus didn't say "I do" over a decade ago.The other day I caught a glimpse of my frontal view in the mirror while I moisturised, and, I have to say, the image reflecting back at me was extremely unflattering.You see, a widening girth creates an optical illusion that this Zulu male does not conform to the virile black male stereotype.My ego aside, the current situation is even starting to negatively affect my nocturnal scrums. The details are unnecessary. All I'll say is that the missionary position ceased to be an option about 5kg ago.And this is how it came to pass that I "invested" in a pair of cycling shorts and a neon-green top. If so many of my readers didn't go through this column while eating breakfast, I'd post a picture of myself in that regalia.On the first morning I went cycling, I learnt a few things. The first 200m are easy. I found myself wondering aloud, "Why would Lance Armstrong take steroids for this? This is such a breeze."It was precisely at this point that I discovered the human eye is useless at picking up inclines. The road in front of me looked flat. And yet my hamstrings were screaming louder than Steve Hofmeyr in front of a purple Paul Kruger statue. Be very afraid of mutiSo I pedalled even harder. This is when I discovered that there is a muscle between the back thigh muscle and the gluteus maximus (the butt muscle) because it was burning so much I started fantasising about taking an ice bath. Science calls this muscle the adductor magnus. I call it the "where's the next flippin' downhill?" muscle.In the past I have hypothesised that suburban dogs are racist because they're always barking at the postman. During my ride from hell I had to put away my race card because neighbours' dogs that never bark at me started barking furiously as I rode past.Heck, even my own freaking dogs greeted me with furious barking as I approached my own gate after my hell ride before they recognised me. I think that whichever slave master initially domesticated dogs must have appeared on the horizon on a bicycle. And when dogs bark, it is possibly a canine social network hashtag along the lines of #CyclistMustFall.But fear not. I will not be deterred from my course. These fleshy bits need to go. Next week, I vow I will be back in the saddle. And maybe this time I will complete an entire kilometre before I abort my mission and head home.E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcoboNgcobo's book Eat, Drink &amp; Blame the Ancestors, a collection of Sunday Times columns (Two Dogs &amp; Sunday Times Books, R190), is available now.