I don't know why some people drench themselves in perfume, cologne or what we term fragrances, and assume we bystanders are enjoying the sensation.We all share the same airspace and for some, strong perfume can be like passively inhaling cigarette smoke when you don't smoke. You may be wearing Dior but if you apply too much of it, you may as well wear Doom.I've nothing against smelling as sweet as a rose. But fragrances can be as off-putting as halitosis or bad body odour, particularly when sprayed too liberally.The Conch: #firstworldproblemsThe proper application is a few dabs on a few strategic points of your body so that the effect is subtle.Men seem to be the main culprits in this phenomenon, and the BEE type in particular. In plain English, these types are the nouveau riche, and they exist all over Africa so you don't even have to know what the acronym stands for to get the gist of whom I'm talking about. These types overdo everything from their pointy shoes to their fancy cars. If this isn't attention-seeking behaviour, I don't know what is.With their heavy fragrances these men are shouting: "Here I am!" I would go as far as to warn women against heavily perfumed men because they are not "quiet" people. Bombarding us with strong smells must surely be a sign of aggressive behaviour.The Conch: Leave the condom-size riddle to the governmentThe other side of the coin is that these perfumed men are not confident: they are hiding behind their excesses, covering up their naughty deeds.I don't even think David Beckham wears his own brand of perfume. He's made money out of it but he's got nothing to prove to anyone, certainly not his wealth, which he's built from scratch.The elevator experience is the worst. With at least half-a-dozen of you confined in a small space, the fragrance culprits are really pushing us to the limit. Even after they have left the lift five floors ago, their smell still lingers. Someone should tell them that people have sensitive disorders like asthma and migraines which need to be managed.So how do you tell someone they're wearing too much perfume? If you are me, you don't. It's like halitosis or bad body odour; you don't want to offend anyone so you suffer in silence.