Gardens have grown steadily smaller by choice and necessity. Even huge new houses, simply because they re so large, have small gardens. Plants have also shrunk: compact , dwarf and miniature are words that crop up continually in the nursery trade as gold-star recommendations.</img>Close up of an elephant ear's leaf (Colocasia esculenta). Image: ThinkstockClose up of an elephant ear's leaf (Colocasia esculenta). Image: ThinkstockBut the idea that in a small space you must stick to small plants is erroneous. What you really want is something big and bold, a plant with presence that will bring a sense of space and freedom to your garden.You still need low plantings and contrasting dense growth, but garden magic is made by playing with scale and proportion and pushing the boundaries. The easiest way to do this is to enlist one of nature s grand gestures, a plant of architectural form, graceful growth or sheer exuberance.Some are waterholics, or often listed as not suitable for small gardens, but if you are looking after only a few square metres of ground and a relatively small clump, these free spirits are easy to grow and manage. Choose just one or a small group of the same species as the key feature, making sure that it suits your conditions, space, architecture and style. Plants with a bold presence TREESOne beautiful tree could grow to become the presiding spirit. Choose a deciduous indigenous species such as the wild pear (Dombeya rotundifolia, 6m), the first to flower in spring, or the larger fast-growing coral tree (Erythrina lysistemon, 10m, below) with its beautiful pale grey bark and scarlet flowers.</img>Banana leaves will add a lush, tropical look to your garden. Image: ThinkstockBanana leaves will add a lush, tropical look to your garden. Image: ThinkstockFor a wild, sculptural presence, plant a tree aloe (Aloe barberae) or two or three of the same species of tall single-stemmed aloe (A pluridens, A speciosa and A thraskii are particularly striking).LEAVESLarge leaves add instant impact and atmosphere. Consider the fast-growing wild banana (Ensete ventricosum, 3m to 6m) and taller varieties of canna, which can shoot up to more than 2m, providing lush foliage and colour.Classic elephant ears (Colocasia esculenta), well fed and watered, make spectacular plants. The largest leaf (at least 1m across) of all is Gunnera manicata, a marsh plant from the South American jungle; plant it in a small bog garden or pond and you won t need much else except creeper-clad walls.</img>The stems of the giant papyrus (Cyperus papyrus) can grow to well over 2m. Image: ThinkstockThe stems of the giant papyrus (Cyperus papyrus) can grow to well over 2m. Image: ThinkstockREEDS Reeds will provide a tall, airy screen and bring a magical play of light to the garden. One of the most beautiful is the giant papyrus (Cyperus papyrus) with its fine starbursts that crown stems reaching well over 2m. It is essentially a marsh plant, but it will grow anywhere if reasonably well watered.This feature is adapted from an article originally published in Sunday Times Home Weekly.