1. POACHED EGGS ON TOMATO TOAST WITH BACON Serves 2My ultimate egg and bacon breakfast. When tomatoes are in season and sweet and ripe, I make this with fresh ones. At other times of the year, to get that intense flavour, I use halved cherry tomatoes which have been dressed with salt, pepper and olive oil and roasted in an oven at 180 C.Ingredients:4 rashers of streaky bacon2 very fresh eggs2 slices of good bread (I like to use rye or sourdough)2 ripe tomatoes, halvedSea salt and freshly ground black pepperMethod:1) Place a frying pan over a high heat and fry the bacon until crisp - streaky bacon won't need any extra fat for frying2) Meanwhile, poach the eggs in a pan of simmering water for 3 minutes. Adding a splash of vinegar to the poaching water works well here as the flavour goes nicely with the tomatoes. Remove from the pan and drain on kitchen paper.3) Toast the bread.4) Squash and rub the tomatoes, cut side down, all over the toast so that the flesh squeezes into it. Season well with salt and pepper. Lay the bacon on top of the tomato toast and pour over any fat from the pan. Put a poached egg on top of each piece of toast, sprinkle over a little more salt and pepper and serve. 2. CRISP (FRIZZLED) EGGS WITH SAGE AND CHILLI Serves 2This is a very satisfying breakfast when you need to blow the cobwebs away. Once you've got the knack of frizzling, you can try using other flavours with the eggs - ground allspice and parsley or tarragon and vinegar are other delicious additions.</img>Crisp (frizzled) eggs with sage and chilli. Image: 'Egg' by Blanche Vaughan (Orion)Crisp (frizzled) eggs with sage and chilli. Image: 'Egg' by Blanche Vaughan (Orion)Ingredients:A mixture of olive oil and sunflower oil, to come to a depth of 1cm in the panAbout 12 fresh sage leaves2 large eggs2 pinches dried chilli flakesToast, to serveGreek yoghurt, to serve (optional)Sea salt and freshly ground black pepperMethod:1) Heat the oil in a deep frying pan until almost smoking hot. Fry the sage leaves for a few seconds on each side to crisp. Remove and drain on kitchen paper.2) Crack each egg into a glass and slip into the hot oil - this will prevent the hot oil splashing as you drop the eggs in. Fry for a few seconds so the edge of the white starts to brown and crisp. When the white becomes opaque and the yolks are still runny, transfer to a plate lined with kitchen paper to drain away any excess oil.3) Serve on toast with the sage leaves and chilli flakes sprinkled on top. Season well with salt and pepper. A dollop of thick Greek yoghurt goes very well with this.Cook's tip:Any excess oil can be reused - when completely cool, just strain it into a bottle, seal and store until needed. 3. SPINACH, MARJORAM &amp; RICOTTA SFORMATA Serves 4Sformata is an Italian dish, similar to a souffl or baked flan but without the pastry shell. "Sformata" means "misshapen". Leafy greens like spinach or chard have a real affinity with the soft, fragrant taste of marjoram or oregano.</img>Spinach, majoram and ricotta sformata. Image: 'Egg' by Blanche Vaughan (Orion)Spinach, majoram and ricotta sformata. Image: 'Egg' by Blanche Vaughan (Orion)Ingredients:5ml (1 tsp) unsalted butter, plus extra to butter the dish50g parmesan, grated500g spinach, washed and large stalks removedSea salt and freshly ground black pepper300g ricotta6 large eggs300g cr me fra cheFew gratings nutmeg30ml (2 tbsp) chopped fresh marjoramMethod:1) Preheat the oven to 200 C. Butter an oval 30 20cm ovenproof baking dish and dust all over with 15ml (1 tbsp) of the grated parmesan.2) Melt the teaspoon of butter in a large, lidded pan and throw in the spinach with just the water clinging to its leaves. Season with salt and pepper, stir briefly then put on a lid so it steams and wilts, this should take about 2 minutes. Tip the cooked spinach into a sieve and squeeze any excess moisture out, before chopping roughly.3) In a bowl, whisk the ricotta to break up any lumps, add the eggs and continue whisking so that bubbles form. Stir in the cr me fra che, nutmeg, marjoram and remaining parmesan. Finally stir in the chopped spinach and pour into the prepared dish.4) Bake in the preheated oven for 25 minutes or until the top is slightly risen and browned and the centre of the sformata feels slightly firm to the touch. Recipes and images 'Egg' by Blanche Vaughan (Orion, R475)