My friend is breakable, 44 and single. She searches for love and makes small raids into intimacy that can leave her wobbly.She connected with this man on Twitter. He sent her black roses, imported from Turkey. His avatar was Dark Soul. She should have known then.He had a spicy line in chat, said he taught bull fighting by day and gave sex therapy lessons at night and once was so rich that he made paper aeroplanes out of 100 notes. He said rands burnt too easily.He said, "Damn the load-shedding, I keep my tennis balls cool in the fridge." He once wrote: "One must marry either an alpha girl or a doormat. I'm going alpha." My friend smiled, of course he meant her. A lot of other girls were smiling at the same time.He was effervescent and quickly grasped the key to her. These Twitter psychopaths know how to curry favour, how to coerce others to yield their secrets while remaining discreet themselves, how to make themselves indispensable. They do a line in self-mystifying so you never quite know what they are up to. He spoke fluent Hallmark, a sweetie pie slant on words that slipped easily through his forked tongue He rigged up a persona he thought she might respond to. He said his father had had a restaurant in Paris but had committed suicide because he lost a Michelin star. He was a wizard at casting sexual spells.He sent her The Count of Monte Cristo to read, with its hero who returns from the dead to take revenge on those who have treated him badly.Maybe it was a hint, but she was beyond hints.They lived their love out there on Facebook and Twitter, although closer examination reveals his billets-doux were carefully constructed and hardly personal. My friend did meet him once (of course he lived out of town in impossibly romantic circumstances) and he was solicitous in a grey cashmere polo neck. But someone had seen him in high-heeled boots and blue leather gloves, a super spiv, only a day before. 4 love apps to help you avoid real-time dating disastersHe started a restaurant to avenge his father's failure. The refrigeration went wrong, my friend paid, ah the story, you know it already. But the interesting thing was that when he disappeared we knew nothing about him. He was a tweet-by-night - a twit, in fact. What she had thought of as generous, imaginative and enduring had been a paper moth.To many hustlers, drama and pain are a form of expression. They relish dramatising the confrontations between deviance and control and will use anything to frack your head.And for someone like him, the social network was his quarry, allowing him to endlessly Photoshop his psyche, dry-clean his soul, remove the noise from his being, both emotionally and physically. He spoke fluent Hallmark, a sweetie pie slant on words that slipped easily through his forked tongue, with daredevil manoeuvres that frequently focused on the long-term emotional dilapidation of the victim.He skinned my friend alive.These domestic hustlers are descendants of the old courtier. How innocent the thrown cloak seems, the doffed cap, as they feel their way round the scorched earth of the internet. Its quickening words, the easy exits, were made for the sociopath.Here are Gide's words from The Immoralist: "The worst instinct of every human being appeared to me the most sincere." But remember, these people can sip your spinal fluid through a straw.