The first fashion-related decision you made this morning? Sneakers or brogues.The last fashion faux pas you saw that made your cringe? Tights as pants... make them stop, please!</img>Models present creations from the Adidas by Stella McCartney Spring/Summer 2014 collection. Image: Suzanne Plunkett / ReutersModels present creations from the Adidas by Stella McCartney Spring/Summer 2014 collection. Image: Suzanne Plunkett / ReutersLast thing you Googled? The Adidas x Stella McCartney collaboration.On you at all times? Lipstick, sunglasses, purse, tape measure.Person you d most like to meet? Maya Angelou... but I guess that will have to happen in another lifetime.Favourite scent? Incense Oud by Kilian.Hidden talent? I spin a hula-hoop like it s 1975.What inspires you? People that excel against all odds. 5 minutes with designer David TlaleWhat makes you laugh? I make myself laugh, much to my daughters dismay.Most proud of? My two daughters.Last thing you took a picture of? A design for an unusual tuxedo jacket.Can t live without? Brogues.Fashion moment that changed your life? My husband s tailored wedding suit... it looked so good on him. I was almost jealous I didn t wear one.Last book you bought? Memory Against Forgetting, a photographic coffee-table book by Ranjith Kally.</img>Veteran French designer Yves Saint Laurent (surrounded by models) is Allie's all-time fashion icon. Image: ReutersVeteran French designer Yves Saint Laurent (surrounded by models) is Allie's all-time fashion icon. Image: ReutersI never leave home without... Mac lip-plumping gloss (not that I need any plumping).Last piece of clothing you got rid of? A white shirt that I had worn holes into.Favourite TV show? I m addicted to the Crime and Investigation channel.All-time fashion icon? Yves Saint Laurent.Beauty is... like truth, different to different people.This article was originally published in 'The Edit' magazine produced by Sunday Times Fashion Weekly. Look out for the next issue later this year.