While looking up the origins of "random", I randomly encountered the word "bibliomancy", which means to open a book at random and take the first line one reads as instruction or prophecy. Since 1753 this term has applied mainly to the Bible, but in earlier times the works of Homer and Virgil were used by page-flippers in search of meaning.I could not find my copies of Homer's Iliad and Odyssey (I suspect fishmoths), so instead I flipped open The History of Herodotus and allowed my finger to alight on a random line, in hopes it would provide some direction for my life. It read (and I promise this is true): "No other information on this head could I obtain from any quarter."The Pedant Class: Home truthsSo much for that, then. I happened at the same time to be texting a friend, and was distracted by the random words that appear at the bottom of the screen when one is typing a message on various makes of smartphone.Research (it was a quiet Sunday) revealed that these suggestions are programmed according to the words that most commonly follow the one you have typed. Their purpose is to make texting faster - if the word you want is one of the three, all you have to do is tap it rather than type it.It struck me that this predictive text is a modern form of bibliomancy. Was there some arcane force at work that could sense what I was trying to say, that could predict my thoughts?To test it, I typed "I had a bassoon", then tapped each word suggested on the bottom left. I got: I had a bassoon to be a good day to be a good time to get a follow from you would be a good day.Not what I'd expected, but perhaps I was on the wrong side of the screen. Trying again, this time with words on the right, I ended up with: I had a bassoon I love the fact is the most recent version and the rest is history is not an easy to play the piano.Words in the centre gave me: I had a bassoon to be the first half of the year and the other hand is the only thing that would have to go back and I don't think that I have a great way of life.Clearly not, if this is how I choose to spend my time.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler I should have stopped there, but I was hooked on the idea that the phone might actually create a meaningful sentence, so I typed, "blue nose". The words on the left gave me blue nose is so much fun, the centre said blue nose and I don't think that I can see it, and the right: blue nose ring and it will take the best way.Giving it one last chance, I tried going from left to centre to right, which gave me this profundity: blue nose ring on it was the best way of the year and a lot more than the first time since I was in a statement.The problem with predictive text is that it lives for the moment. It deals only with the word you have typed and not with words combined to form a cohesive whole - although there is probably already a smarter phone that goes beyond this.A point in its favour is that it remembers the words you frequently join. Since my experiment, every time I type "blue" the phone suggests "nose" as a follower.I find it encouraging that the words "good" and "best" are among those most flung out by the text generator. It suggests that humans are positive by nature. But it is disappointing that our vocabularies, according to this mode of analysis, are so limited. Nothing I typed was followed by the suggestion "encumbrance", "eland", "phoenix" or "unicorn", let alone hedgehog.The Pedant Class: Legalese under the microscope In his wonderful book, The Language Wars (every pedant should own a copy), Henry Hitchings writes: "It requires a large effort of detachment to think that the rise of textspeak may be one of the glories of minimalism. But feeling outrage is not the same as being right."If, however, we were to write using only the words generated by our texting devices, our language would be so much the poorer. And that, I believe, would be cause for righteous outrage."Random", incidentally, comes from Old French and High German sources meaning "to run fast". In the 1650s the word ran into the English interpretation we still use today: "having no definite aim or purpose".In my world, random is a synonym for Sunday.E-mail your thoughts and observations on language to degroots@sundaytimes.co.za.