Cricket South Africa's (CSA's) recent decree that next season six black players (of which three should be African) be included in franchise teams, has exacerbated the peculiarity."That has become a challenge because of the system," said Highveld Lions chief executive Greg Fredericks."There is now a big demand for African players."He should know. The Lions have other franchises desperate to get their hands on his players like Kagiso Rabada, Temba Bavuma, Eddie Leie, Thami Tsolekile, Aaron Phangiso, Pume Matshikwe and Lonwabo Tsotsobe. "We need to remunerate our players properly but there needs to be fairness in the system based on their value to the team. You have supply and demand and at the moment demand is dominant."Often the amount that is offered to these young players is out of sync with what the real value is," said Fredericks.He added that he could think of just one example in his team where a player was earning well above his true value to the team.Up the N1 at Centurion, Titans chief executive Jacques Faul has grasped this reality."The price for black players has gone up. Market forces dictate that and there isn't anything you can do about it. That is the effect," said Faul.Fredericks proposes intervention."As chief executives we need to get some kind of agreement on this. It creates a distortion in the market. I think it is something we need to regulate."Player's agent Arthur Turner wants nothing of the sort. "We represent white, coloured, black and Indian players. I'm not for regulating things. I think the free market will sort out more issues than regulations will." Tony Irish, SA Cricketers Association CEO, maintains some of the contracting upheaval could have been avoided had franchises been able to plan properly."Player contracts has a total cap, like in American sports. Franchises have X amount to spend. Within that you have a maximum contract value and a minimum. It has been suggested that caps be introduced within that. We are not in favour of that," said Irish.At one franchise, the Sunday Times has learnt, a bowler who does not play all the games earns more than the captain, who sets the lead in his area of expertise.</img>Kagiso Rabada of South Africa sends down a delivery during the 1st KFC T20 International match between South Africa and West Indies at Sahara Park Newlands on January 09, 2015 in Cape Town, South Africa. Image: Shaun Roy/Gallo ImagesKagiso Rabada of South Africa sends down a delivery during the 1st KFC T20 International match between South Africa and West Indies at Sahara Park Newlands on January 09, 2015 in Cape Town, South Africa. Image: Shaun Roy/Gallo ImagesIn some cases players who barely had semi-professional contracts end up with the real deal, but the issue isn't one that should be exclusively weighed in rands and cents."It is difficult to say who qualifies to play franchise cricket if someone hasn't played before," Faul noted."When you get better coaching and start working with better players, you improve. We saw this with Junior Dala, how well he's come through. Was he the same bowler a year or two years ago? Probably not."It's about giving opportunities. I think the complication that could arise with the prescribed three African players for next season is when there are injuries."What will also happen is that your coloured and Indian players will be under pressure. The heartbreak is, some of the guys who can jol will have to sit out."There will undoubtedly be casualties, but if you ask me how to best restore the historical imbalances, then I can't give you an answer."We are part of the sacrifice generation. It has to be because our country has a sad past."