One of their favourite pastimes is to moan hysterically about how President Jacob Zuma and his band of merry men and women in the cabinet misuse public funds on futile activities. Nothing could be further from the truth.The other day I was minding my own business, driving under Sanral gantry after Sanral gantry on the N3, when I saw a ginormous billboard with the minister of basic education's mugshot smiling down upon the highway. It gave me a warm, fuzzy feeling because I think she is a lovely woman to look at.The caption read, "If you can read this, thank a teacher," or something along those lines. What a great way to spend the education budget. I cannot be certain how many trips to deliver textbooks in remote Limpopo villages the money spent on this brilliant, crucial campaign could buy - and I don't care. So what if only about 40% of our Grade 5 pupils can even read and comprehend that brilliant billboard?Are South Africans permanently pissed-off?We all need to rally behind our teachers and thank them for the sterling job they are doing under difficult circumstances. It can't be easy juggling between the classroom and the toyi-toyi arena known as the streets.I remember some of my favourite teachers. When I was in Sub-A (known as Grade 1 these days because ... well, we gotta rename stuff) one of the teachers was a Ma'am Ndlovu. She had more facial muscles than Arnie Schwarzenegger. To gently persuade us to learn our arithmetic tables, she would organise meetings between our puny 5-year-old buttocks and a bamboo cane. To ensure that we got a good dose of encouragement, she would grab us by the ears, drag us towards her, shove our heads between her thighs and clamp us there while administering her favoured teaching aid on our tiny behinds. We would emerge with tears streaming down our faces, ears burning and our heads reeking of the potpourri scent she seemed to douse herself with down there. Oh, how I wish I was making this up.When I was in Standard 3 (Grade 5), my Afrikaans teacher was a certain Ma'am Ndaba. For some obscure reason, Afrikaans periods always seemed to fall after lunch and they were always double periods. I used to look forward to Afrikaans lessons about as much as the speaker of parliament looks forward to Q&amp;A sessions.They seemed to last hours, what with repeating stuff about honde wat blaf and 'n man wat die hout kap and poems about some annoying girl called Lui Letta. I would have happily volunteered to have vinegar enemas rather than Afrikaans lessons.It didn't help that Ma'am Ndaba would return from lunch smelling suspiciously like fermented malt. One afternoon she walked in, took one look at one fellow in the front row by the name of Patrick, and proclaimed, "Wena mfana onensila ebusweni, hamb' uyogez' ubuso." (You, with scum on your face, go wash it off.)So Patrick trudged off to the tap and started washing his face vigorously. Because he had no Vaseline on him, he returned with the same patchy face, only now completely ashy. Ma'am Ndaba was livid, gave him five strokes with a cane, tossed him a bar of No Name laundry soap and told him to wash off the scum thoroughly. Be very afraid of mutiOff went Patrick for a second bite at facial cleansing. It was only after the third wash that an older girl called Rejoice stood up and pointed out to the human brewery in front of the class that Patrick had some form of eczema or ringworm.Another one of my favourites was a Mr Gatsheni who walked around the school with a cattle whip folded under his arm. He taught me general science. Well, not so much taught me as whipped it into my thick skull.He would be going on about cephalothorax this, viviparous that and where the anus of a locust was situated, when some silly person would giggle at the back. And with the dexterity of Indiana Jones, Mr Gatsheni would look to the left of the class and "crack", the end of the whip would land on the offender's shoulder blade.It is for this reason that when he instructed us to bring a live locust to school, I would collect about five. I'd seen what happened to Bethwell when his locust suffered some kind of seizure or heart attack and died.Don't get me wrong. Eighty percent of teachers who taught me throughout my schooling were dedicated, hardworking individuals who did their best within the confines of their skills and abilities. However, human nature dictates that it is not these teachers one remembers, but the certifiably mad ones.So when the minister implores us to thank a teacher, I will comply. I'd like to thank Ma'am Ndaba for teaching me that no amount of laundry soap can remove eczema patches. And I hope that wherever Patrick is, he's a renowned dermatologist.E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcoboNgcobo's book Eat, Drink &amp; Blame the Ancestors, a collection of Sunday Times columns (Two Dogs &amp; Sunday Times Books, R190), is available now.