The difference between bear and bare is a common bugbear. A bear is a furry creature. A bare bear has no hair.As a verb, bear means to carry - think of Papa Bear lugging a dozen freshly caught salmon into the kitchen, where Mama Bear will smoke them to serve later with cream cheese and capers.Bear can also be a metaphorical form of carrying, as in the Hamlet quote. It can mean to give birth or to put up with something onerous (confusing when someone says they can't bear children). One can bear up, bear down, bear out, bear with, bring to bear or grin and bear it. Or grin and bare it, in the case of the cheerful stripper.The Pedant Class: A history of the random blue nose ringBare as a verb means to expose or unclothe. It should be easy to differentiate the load-bearing bear from the bare necessities. I thought perhaps the song from the Disney film of The Jungle Book was responsible for the uncertainty, but last week I saw a photograph of the World War 1 air forces memorial in London, on which the inscription reads: "I bare you on eagles wings.""What a monumental mistake," I snorted. "That should be 'bear', not 'bare'."Actually, if the bearing on the wings of eagles was meant in the past tense, it should have been "bore". To bare someone on an eagle's wing would be to strap him up there in his birthday suit. It might be all soft and downy, but one shudders to think of the wind chill factor when flying with bare skin exposed to the elements.Surely there must have been massive outrage when the monument was unveiled? I left no stone unturned, but my search revealed not a single letter from an angry pedant. So I looked up the quote, which is from Exodus 19:4. The King James translation of the Bible, published long before Kipling's Jungle Book, reads: "Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto myself."There. Bare. In all its naked glory. No wonder students of English tear their hair out. How did this mix-up happen?The Online Etymology Dictionary tells us that "bear", the animal, comes from a chain of old northern words meaning "brown". "Bare", on the other paw, comes from the Old English b r, meaning naked. (Incidentally, the ancient Armenian word that predates this was bok - which might explain why we refer to someone divested of clothing as "buck naked".)</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler The verb "to bear" comes from the Old English beran: "to bear, bring forth, produce, endure, wear". Now comes the rub. The past tense of beran was, for a long time, baer. That's right, almost the same word used for naked. In Middle English the spelling was changed to "bare" and this was used in literary works as the past tense of "to bear" until after 1600. Hence its appearance in the King James Bible, which was completed in 1611.Between 1400 and 1600 there appears to have been some dispute over "bare" versus "bore". Two hundred years of arguing about a verb might sound like enough to bore anyone to death, but there was no Downton Abbey on TV.This goes once again to show the fluidity and changing shape of language. Even when a word is carved on an important memorial, its meaning is never cast in stone. Understanding where words come from might help us to forgive errors that in their time were deemed correct, but whichever way you look at it, that stonemason should have chipped in an apostrophe after "eagles".Email your observations on words and language to degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow the author on Twitter: @deGrootS1