He asks my name."Nana," I respond. Most of my Ghanaian friends, male and female, are called Nana.I do not lie about my name because I think the trader is about to ask for my phone number or for any of the other reasons that I have lied about my name in the past. I lie about my name because of a previous experience in Ghana.The Conch: These are fragrant violationsIn 2008, I was at a literary workshop in Ghana and my fellow South Africans were busy killing their fellow African brothers and sisters. Our public relations on the continent was at a very low point. I was with a Niq, a Mahala and a few other folks in a minibus driven by a local, Karim.Out of the blue Karim said: "There are two countries I never want to go to on this continent."Niq asked: "And which are these, my man?""Nigeria and South Africa," Karim answered.Curious, I chirped: "Why don't you want to go to Nigeria?""Because those Nigerians are thieves. They take our passports and use them to go to other countries. They take our jobs."He sounded like some of my fellow South Africans excusing their anti-African other behaviour, I thought. Except he didn't want to go to South Africa.The Conch: #firstworldproblemsSo, wincing, I asked him why. I feared he might talk about the Afrophobia and, heck, maybe he wasn't as bad as my fellow South Africans. I don't know how many Nigerians have been killed here by Ghanaians.He braked and cut off the engine. We had not reached our destination so he clearly felt what he had to say was portentous. He turned and looked at us. "You people," he said, breathed in deeply, then continued: "You killed Lucky Dube." He pronounced it "dub".Karim was angry. I don't think any of us had ever apologised so sincerely for a crime we had not committed. I remember saying: "Sorry man, we didn't mean to do it."Here is the thing. Lucky Dube continues to be a very big name in Ghana and many other countries. And Kwesi was making reggae bracelets. I wasn't about to apologise again for a crime I hadn't committed. That's why I lied that my name was Nana.When I finish my tour of the castle, Kwesi is there again. "May I make you a name bracelet?"They are pretty. And, at six cedis, won't break the bank. But I lied about my name. What to do?"I can't afford it, Kwesi. I used all my money to pay for the tour.""That's OK. I make and give you one for free," he says.The Conch: Leave the condom-size riddle to the governmentJa right."Why would you give me something for free?""Are you not my sister?" he says.And Kwesi is smooth. He probably knows that I lied about my name. So he gives me a pen and a paper and says: "Write the name of whoever I should make the bracelet for."I write my name. Then tell him, "This is my real name."He nods. As he weaves my name, he says: "And I am not really 20.""So why did you say you were 20?" I ask."My friends were here and they know I just finished school. But I started school late." He is 25. Must be what they call "football age", I think. So we get talking about the Black Stars and that devastating loss in the Afcon as he finishes my bracelet.I shrug at his revelation as I am sure he shrugs at mine. What's a couple of white lies between two Black Stars fans?