Mrs X and I aren't close, but we once shared a queue at a popular - if often boycotted - luxury supermarket.Please believe that I am not under-exaggerating when I say that we had been waiting in this queue for roughly five minutes. But Mrs X, for reasons real or imagined, is way too important a person to be kept waiting so long. Mrs X was late for something really important, possibly a manicure. And so, despite no one else in the queue showing any sign of joining her rebellion, Mrs X nevertheless rebelled.Are South Africans permanently pissed-off?Her speech, delivered in whichever wealthy, white, South African accent you feel like imagining, was short and to the point. I don't have the full transcript, but it could be paraphrased roughly as "Why is it taking so long??? It's TAKING TOO LONG! Who's the manager on duty today? Is it Mavis? CALL MAVIS!" she boomed, heightening an already absurd situation. I realised she must be a local at this particular store, her complaints so frequent that she is on a first-name basis with all its managers. Even if it is, probably, only the first names that get given out because they're more pronounceable for white people."But, like, why bring race into this?" I hear imaginary white people protest. "I am colour-blind! I don't care if people are black, white, brown or purple." To which I could only respond, sorry to hear about your condition, I hope you didn't have aspirations of becoming a pilot. And while I have never met a purple person I wish them only goodwill and prosperity, if indeed any exist. But don't you think it's a bit convenient that the one race that still enjoys more privileges than any other is the only one that feels uncomfortable talking about race?My fellow white people! I am not saying we can't complain, only that we have, on average, less reason to complain than anyone else in South Africa. And while all the citizens of our vibrant democracy have been known to have a moan and have every right to do so, if you find yourself enraged because Woolies has run out of free-range ostrich fillet when others are enraged at not having running water or adequate sanitation, it may be a sign that, rather than yelling for Mavis, you should be yelling out your gratitude for having such small problems.</img> Image: Thinkstock Image: Thinkstock In final response to the imaginary white people who may leave comments underneath this piece online, I'm not saying that all white people behave like this, only that all people I have ever seen behaving like this happen to be white. So if you are white, reading this and have never created a scene publicly because you are not receiving the lofty level of service to which you are accustomed, well done. It's people like you that give our race a good name.And thanks to Mrs X and others, we need all the good PR we can get.