Garden lighting at its best is a mix of the practical and the magical. The trick is to make the practical magical too. The purpose of practical lighting is to make walkways, steps and uneven ground safely negotiable at night. On patios, you need a soft ambience (light from the house may be enough). In the garden, pure magic comes with subtle lighting of planting and features. Here, less is more.Well-planned and placed outdoor illumination can also offer an effective alternative to harsh security lighting, without turning night into day. Light pollution is a major problem in urban areas, blotting out the beauty of the night sky and disorientating wildlife. You can help by not overdoing the brightness, and by using sensor lamps, downward deflectors and low-power bulbs. The brighter and whiter the light, the more insects you are likely to attract. Go for warm white LEDs or yellow standard bulbs.</img>As no wiring is required, solar spikes are a quick and easy way to light your garden. Image: ThinkstockAs no wiring is required, solar spikes are a quick and easy way to light your garden. Image: ThinkstockSAFETY FIRSTLighting of the ground level is the first priority: go for low-set lights with deflectors that direct and spread the light downwards, and that avoid dazzle. Lights can be built into steps or walls alongside, but deflectors are always necessary.Lampposts and wall fittings can be used at entrance courtyards and on driveways. Make sure their look suits your architecture and garden.In the garden itself, soft uplighting works well, but the light source should be concealed. Use it to cast a shadow of a tree on a wall, backlight a plant, or illuminate a pool or fountain.POWER POINTSOutdoor lighting demands both art and technology; it s worthwhile calling in a specialist to advise you on placing, power sources and fittings. Solar lights are an appealing option, but it s still a good idea to lay cables to key points. Run them along paths so you know and remember where they are. And make sure that all sockets are properly capped and sealed.At present, the cost of LED bulbs is somewhat high but they are getting cheaper all the time. LEDs are available as solar or powered lights and also offer a range of colours. Note that solar lights vary in strength and quality and the cheaper ones may not last that long, but the technology is constantly improving.QUICK FIXESThere are simple and delightful effects that you can achieve yourself. Mood lighting doesn t have to be a permanent fixture. A few inexpensive solar spikes are a good way to experiment with placing. Try moving them around to highlight features and seasonal plantings. And solar jars, traditional torches, candles in glass lanterns or paper bags, or tea-lights in plain or fancy holders are great for outdoor dining and special occasions.