One can understand why the word "reign" is automatically associated with royalty (doubly so in the case of the previous crowned head of Monaco, who was called Prince Reign-Here), but the ongoing confusion between the homonyms "reign" and "rein" appears impossible to cure.A king can reign in a kingdom or a castle, or in titular capacity in Spain, but what can possibly reign in a king? Perhaps a king's innards could be ruled by a power-hungry tapeworm, or perhaps an addiction could reign in said king's head - except in a king's case one would probably use the euphemism "ruling passion" instead of "addiction".The Pedant Class: The quip sideA ruling passion is not only the overwhelming desire to draw straight lines. It could be a need to keep spaniels, or go ten-pin bowling. But back to homonyms, which are words that sound alike but have different meanings. Words such as reign, rein and rain, in other words. Or plane, plane and plain.Homonyms should not be confused with Houyhnhnms, the educated horses that reigned over ignorant Yahoos in Gulliver's Travels. How the horses managed to hold books and pens and clean spectacles with their hooves has always intrigued me, but one should allow the imagination free rein, especially an imagination as rich as Jonathan Swift's.Back in the real world of newspapers, the phrase that should have been printed in the offending article was "rein in", meaning to tighten one's hold on the reins connected to a horse's bridle, thereby slowing it down from a runaway gallop to a controlled trot or even a full stop.If the horse has the bit between its teeth, however, trying to rein it in will be ineffectual and it will run on regardless towards whatever destruction awaits both it and you, so you might as well use both hands to hold on. Or jump off.It is a mystery why there is so much bewilderment about reign and rein. It can't be simply that they sound alike, because everyone seems quite clear about what rain is, unless it's sleet. Planes and plains also give far less trouble than one would expect, particularly in these days of spying drones that make it impossible to hide in plane sight. I mean plain sight.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler There is one area of confusion between plain and plane - or at least I hope there is, otherwise I'm the only Yahoo who keeps making this mistake. I am still not entirely sure whether the trees currently joining transparent green hands above the boulevards of Barcelona, from where I write these lines, are called plain trees or plane trees.I was for a long time convinced it was "plain", which struck me as a very silly name for such a pretty tree. One might as well give a beautiful exotic flower the Greek name for a testicle. Oh, hang on...Anyway, someone told me these are in fact "plane" trees. This makes even less sense, unless it is a reference to their bark, which one might imagine had been planed with that other sort of plane, the one without wings that makes wood smooth.I could look it up, of course, but I hope a botanically minded reader will provide enlightenment. In the meantime, the plains in Spain have for the last few days been entirely without rain. Down south in Plein Street, I believe there have been power showers.Email your observations on words and language to degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow the author on Twitter: @deGrootS1