Hands up the parent who isn't glad to be back at work. Perhaps it's not the actual work bit, but being back in the office means escaping the madness that is full-time parenting.Yes, it is the grind, the graft, the routines. But let us not pretend that we find no sweet serenity in getting back to those hours in a world that is purely adult, apart from childish colleagues.Speaking of colleagues, one of ours accidentally returned to work a day early at the end of these holidays, but decided to stay at the office and play Candy Crush rather than go home. Don't blame you, nameless shameless guy.The holidays were great: fantastic bonding and lots of fun, festivities, a getaway. Real quality time for the first time this year.Eventually, for the working parent, the end of the holidays means a sweet, sweet respite from your spouse and your child; especially so if it's children, plural.Those adages about absence and familiarity? They must have been written towards the end of school holidays, which seem to lengthen every year.Not to diss the stay-at-home parents. You are revered, if not slightly mad and better than the rest of us.Well done to you.Because it is damn hard work.And nobody pays you for it.Not even a tiny 10 cents. Are we depriving our kids by driving them to school?Feeding the family seems endless. More than once, the temptation to connect frying pan to temple arose this long weekend, when someone asked, "What's for lunch?" four minutes after breakfast.Hauling it all along on holiday, hoping you remembered the favourite swimming trunks and floats, and the children's buckets and spades. It's for the birds.And what is it about filling the days with meaningful activities?Do we have to hide eggs in the garden? Surely they have learned how to access the snack cupboard by now?Mothers usually discover the bliss of work following maternity leave.That daunting day, much fretted over, the fleeting calculations of how to wangle it on a single income or none, rather than leave the little thing behind.Then, half an hour after opening her MS Outlook calendar, packed with interestingly colour-coded meetings, mom pensions off the track pants she wore for three days in a row, swapping them for smart slacks and actual high heels.Praise be for the freshly brewed coffee, long lunches and the brain functions that go beyond how many pairs of underwear are left till laundry day. Forget sun and sand, we need computer cubicles, swaying stacks of paper and deadlines.