1. Cure the Wayne Parnell headacheIt might appear as if Parnell is getting picked on, but his natural talents make it impossible to ignore his flailing potential-to-success ratio. He is young and prodigiously gifted.The 25-year-old could be for the Proteas what Trent Boult and Mitchell Starc, the two leading World Cup wicket takers, were for New Zealand and Australia. And he can bat, which doubles his value.In six of the 11 editions of this quadrennial competition, left-arm seamers have finished as top wicket takers, including the last two and the last one held in Britain in 1999.Former Australian fast bowler Geoff Lawson says: "Parnell is a very similar bowler to [Trent] Boult in many ways: in action and swing. From the outside looking in, it looks like he should be an outstanding bowler."As a coach, you need to know what makes bowlers tick. It's not a matter of coaching their technique. You've got to understand what makes them bowl better, how they take coaching instructions and how they interact within the team."[Australian left-arm fast bowler Mitchell] Johnson was fast but also erratic before. He's become consistent because of the help from Dennis Lillee," Lawson said."Starc has come through the New South Wales system where I'm the bowling coach, so have [Josh] Hazlewood and [Pat] Cummins."Shane Bond had a lot to do with Boult performing the way he did. So having a world-class former fast bowler mentoring him can work."Failing which, Cape Cobras' Beuran Hendricks (below) could get a look in. 2. Imran Tahir and the renewed trust in spinnersAt 36 years, it is unlikely Tahir (below) will make it to the next World Cup but he has left South Africa - other than the memory of his wild celebrations - with renewed faith in spin."Imran did very well under the circumstances and was a big weapon for SA," says former Protea Nicky Boj ."But you always need an all-rounder kind of spinner that can contribute with the bat and ball. We've got a couple of guys that can do that, like Simon Harmer. Harmer and Dane Piedt had good test debuts but there is still time for them to develop."You can definitely see that the selectors have more faith in the spinning department." 3. Where have all the all-rounders gone?Boj believes there was enough in JP Duminy's bowling performance (including a hat-trick against Sri Lanka) to convince him he can fill the void."JP Duminy has developed as a spinner," Boj said. "You can see the progress he has made in the past year - he can almost play as a frontline spinner now." 4. Black talent must be allowed to flourish.... without political interference. Some of the promising cricketers on circuit happen to be black.Players like Khaya Zondo (above) of the Dolphins, Highveld Lions' Temba Bavuma and Kagiso Rabada have all earned the glimmer of spotlight that has shone on them domestically."Zondo has played well in the last couple of years for the Dolphins, so too has Bavuma for us," Lions head coach Geoff Toyana says."It is very important that we blood them in a proper way. It would be nice to have Rabada play about 30 internationals by the time the next World Cup comes. That way he will be ready."Zondo still has some work to do but this coming season will be key for him in building up his numbers. The next 12 months are going to be critical for both Zondo and Bavuma."5. Blood the next Dale SteynStep forward Rabada and Titans' fast bowler Marchant de Lange."I think it will be important to start blooding the back-up bowlers right away, which we have an abundance of," says Toyana."Steyn, 31, is still going strong and so too is Morn Morkel, 30. They should manage those guys properly so that they are in top shape in 2019. Maybe give them a break for the Bangladesh tour."In the meantime, it would be nice to fill up our stock in terms of bowling options. [Fast bowler Kyle] Abbott was good at the World Cup but Rabada, De Lange and Chris Morris have to come to the fore. We are fortunate to also have Hardus Viljoen, Dane Paterson and Daryn Dupavillon."