UGANDAN ROLEXIn a hurry? Use store-bought chapatis or even flour tortillas to make these African omelette wraps.For the chapatis (makes 6):240g (2 cups) cake flour30ml (2 tbsp) vegetable oil5ml (1 tsp) saltFor each omelette:2 eggs, lightly beatenSalt and pepper to seasonSliced tomatoes, peppers and onion, shredded cabbage or the filling of your choiceA pat of butter and a splash of oilMethod:1) To make the chapatis: mix the flour, oil and salt and make a dough by adding warm water; about a cup. Knead the dough until smooth and elastic. Allow to rest for an hour. Knead again. Divide into 6 portions. Lightly flour your surface and roll out each to a diameter of about 15cm. Heat a pan over moderate heat (a dry pan, no oil). Cook one at a time for about 4 minutes, turning after each minute. Set aside. Reheat just before serving so that it becomes pliable again.3) To make each omlette: Heat the butter and oil in a small pan (you want the omelette to match the size of the chapati). Add the eggs and seasoning. Cook until the bottom of the omelette has set. Add your choice of fillings. Cook until the egg is just cooked through (an omelette should never be dry).4) To assemble each Ugandan Rolex: Top the warm omelette with a heated chapati. Flip the pan onto a plate, roll and serve.COCONUT CHICKEN STRIPS WITH MANGO SAUCEThe popularity of these delicious snacks is thanks to the crunchy coconut crust around the chicken, and the zing of the mango sauce. This recipe feeds a crowd.For the coconut chicken:12 chicken breast fillets500ml (2 cups) orange juice280g (2 cups) cake flour4 cloves garlic, crushed10ml (2 tsp) mixed dried herbs4 eggs30ml (2 tbsp) water200g (2 cups) desiccated coconut, toastedVegetable oil for fryingFor the mango sauce:2 ripe mangoes, peeled and sliced2 spring onions, choppedPinch of red chilli flakes15ml (1 tbsp) white wine vinegar or fresh lime juice5ml (1 tsp) sugarSalt and pepperMethod:1) Slice each chicken breast into 6 strips. Marinade the strips in orange juice and refrigerate for an hour. Meanwhile season the flour with the garlic and dried herbs. Whisk the eggs well with a little water.2) Lay out three containers - one each for the flour mixture, egg wash and coconut. Remove the chicken strips from the marinade. Dip each strip first in flour, then egg wash and finally roll it in the coconut. Arrange in single layers on a baking sheet and refrigerate for an hour.3) Deep-fry the chicken strips until golden brown and drain on paper towel.4) To make the mango sauce: blitz all the ingredients in a food processor. Adjust seasoning by adding a little more sugar if too sour, or a squeeze of lime if the sauce is too sweet. Sprinkle with extra chilli flakes and serve with the coconut chicken strips. CORN BREAD TOAST WITH AVOCADO AND PISTACHIOSThis recipe makes 6 sandwiches. The corn bread freezes really well; simply slice it into 12 equal slices and use as needed.For the corn bread:250ml (1 cup) corn kernels, fresh or frozen4 peppadews, finely chopped3 eggs, lightly beaten250ml (1 cup) buttermilk60ml ( cup) vegetable oil5ml (1 tsp) dried chilli flakes120g (1 cup) cake flour60g ( cup) maize meal15ml (1 tbsp) baking powder5ml (1 tsp) sugarPinch of salt100g (1 cup) grated cheddar cheeseTo serve:1 avocado, peeled and mashedjuice of 1 small lemonA handful roasted pistachio nuts2 radishes, slicedA handful of pea shootsMethod:1) Preheat the oven to 180 C. Grease and line a medium-sized bread pan.2) In a large bowl, mix the corn kernels with the peppadews, eggs, buttermilk, oil and chilli flakes. In a separate mixing bowl, combine the cake flour, maize meal, baking powder, sugar and salt. Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and mix to combine. Mix in half of the cheese.3) Spoon the dough into the tin. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese on top. Bake for 25 minutes. Cover with foil and bake for another 20 minutes, or until the bread is baked through. Allow to cool slightly, then carefully loosen the sides before turning out.4) Slice the bread and toast on a griddle pan. Fill with avo mixed with fresh lemon juice, pistachio nuts, radishes and pea shoots for a fresh and crunchy lunch. BULGOGIKorean spicy meat wrapped in lettuce leaves with pickled vegetables. This recipe serves 6-8.Ingredients:800g beef, fillet works bestOil, for fryingButter lettuce, to serveFor the marinade:375ml (1 cups) soy sauce50g ( cup) brown sugar5 cloves of garlic, finely chopped15ml (1 tbsp) finely grated ginger65ml ( cup) sesame oil1 onion, finely chopped1 spring onion, finely chopped30g (2 tbsp) sesame seedsFor the pickled vegetables:250ml (1 cup) rice vinegar15ml (1 tbsp) caster sugar2 carrots, grated or julienned1 cucumber, seeded and chopped250ml (1 cup) beansprouts2 spring onions, finely diced15ml (1 tbsp) sesame seedsMethod:1. Slice the beef thinly and place each slice between 2 layers of plastic wrap. Then either roll it flat with a rolling pin or whack it with a meat hammer.2. Combine all the marinade ingredients. Place the marinade and steaks in a resealable bag and allow to rest in the refrigerator for at least an hour. Heat a splash of oil in a frying pan and cook the beef in single layers until lightly charred, about 2 minutes per side. Wipe the pan between batches and add fresh oil. Set aside.3. Stir the rice vinegar and caster sugar together and add the carrots, cucumbers and beansprouts. Marinade for an hour, drain. Drizzle with sesame oil. Add the spring onions and sesame seeds.4. Roll a piece of steak along with some pickled veggies into a butter lettuce leaf and snack away. RAINBOW SANDWICHESThe fun colours and patterns make these sarmies a real winner with kids. This recipe makes 4 sandwich blocks.Ingredients:4 slices bread (try a mix of different types)100g cream cheese15ml (1 tbsp) peach jam15ml (1 tbsp) green fig jam15ml (1 tbsp) raspberry jamextra jam and pomegranate seedsMethod:1) Cut the crusts off the bread. Divide the cream cheese into 3 and flavour and colour each portion with a different jam.2) Spread one colour cream cheese on a slice of bread, top and repeat with the remaining 2 colours. Use small cookie cutters to cut patterns from the top slice of bread before placing it.3) Cut into 4 squares. Fill the cookie-cutter patterns with more jam or pomegranate seeds.