This happens all the time. However, I was intrigued by one detail; they were pushing this Toyota Tazz uphill, with a rather large woman at the wheel. The boys were straining against the car, biceps and calf muscles bulging as they pushed the car up the incline.My curiosity got the better of me and I pulled over. What seemed to be the problem, I inquired.In between a lot of gasping and large gulps of air, one of the young men explained that his aunt's car has a starter problem, that it had stalled and that they were pushing it to the top of the hill for her to kick-start it downhill on the other side. So I politely asked the aunt to step out of the car, got inside the Tazz, rolled it backwards not more than two metres and kick-started it in reverse.I'm not sharing this story to illustrate how stupid that trio of automobile pushers was. On the contrary, I had empathy for their plight. The only reason I knew what to do is that I have driven enough skedonks to keep a bush mechanic named Kombuis busy at his Brakpan workshop for two years straight. I know how to kick-start an automobile in about 17 different ways.Dating was tricker when you couldn't textMy point is that I am a hopeless technophobe. And by hopeless, I mean I'm the kind of person who, when faced with an electronic contraption I have never used before, gets that "What the ...?" look I imagine Queen Elizabeth II probably wore the first time she saw a vacuum cleaner.Few things intimidate me more than gadgets. I once parked a car on Hill Street, Pinetown, circa 1995, and went about my business before returning only to find it couldn't move. In fact, the steering wheel wouldn't even budge. Having decided that I'd seriously broken the damn thing, I started collecting coins from the ash tray so I could call for help from a nearby callbox. A homeless fellow lumbered up to me, jiggled the key in the ignition and - voila! - the steering wheel was unlocked. To say I was embarrassed is an understatement. I mean, I'd been driving cars for years.Some people, like me, are born with the technophobia affliction. However, a lot of old folks are technophobic merely as a consequence of being old. I remember watching TV at a friend's house in the '80s. We had, between us, abused the house phone so much, calling girls in every corner of the southern hemisphere, Telkom had decided to suspend the service. So when his dad picked up the phone to make a call, we tensed up. As he started dialling, the automatic recording of that woman with a raspy voice came on: "Your service has been suspended. Please contact your nearest Telkom branch." Next thing we know, he is responding, "Thank you so much, ma'am. I will do so first thing in the morning." Keeping a straight face was a huge challenge.During my days in the corporate world I worked with an elderly technical manager of Belgian descent. A mischievous character e-mailed him a PowerPoint presentation with pornographic material that started beaming naked women when he clicked on it. The company was extremely strict about porn on company PCs. So he panicked and started trying to stop it, to no avail. I remember him flying into the lab where I worked, yelling, "For crying out loud, man, take it off my machine!" The part that got me giggling uncontrollably is that when he realised he couldn't shut it down, he took off his jacket and covered the damn thing.I remember a time when a telephone was a contraption one used to call people. That was before the smartphone. My damn phone is way too smart for my liking. Every day of my life it asks me to get updates. Here's the thing: I don't have any use for that nonsense. But because the IT specialists behind the scenes believe that if it ain't broke it just needs more updates, they make my phone aggressive to the point where I have to sit and watch it download updates all on its own. And then I feel really daft when I try to execute simple things such as sending e-mail.Sometimes I am so relieved when I perform a simple task, such as locating my contacts, I do an air punch afterwards. But when I start beating myself up over my technophobia, I remind myself that the affliction is relative and that some people are worse off than me. I've had to help people out with the task of paying for a parking ticket.Having said all that, few things have made me crack up more than the guy in a robe and elaborate headgear I spotted struggling to get a Coke out of a vending machine at the airport. When the can finally came out, he grabbed his Coke, bowed at the machine and said: "Thank you very much."E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcoboNgcobo's book Eat, Drink &amp; Blame the Ancestors, a collection of Sunday Times columns (Two Dogs &amp; Sunday Times Books, R190), is available now.