SARDINES AND TOMATOES ON TOASTServes 6Tomatoes on toast is one of my favourite breakfasts. You cut a tomato in half, fry it, and smoosh each hot, sweet half onto a slice of toast with loads of butter, salt and pepper. Unlike in some recipes, the sardines won't turn into a grey-flecked mess. Here, the flavours complement each other while staying self-contained.Ingredients:10-15 cherry tomatoes, depending on sizeOlive oil, for frying1 whole red chilli100g flat can sardines in oil (preferably smoked Brisling)2 slices dense bread (preferably sourdough)Butter, for the toastSea salt and freshly ground black pepperMethod:1) Cut the tomatoes in half while you heat the oil in a non-stick frying pan that has a lid or something that will fit over it.2) Take the pan off the heat and put the tomatoes in the pan cut-side down. We want to cook both sides of each tomato half, and we don't want tomato mush. Add the whole chilli then return to the heat, which should be on medium-low. Put the lid over the tomato to steam it a little, so the insides become soft and sweet. After a few minutes, check the tomato. If the undersides are golden, turn over and replace the lid.3) After a minute or so, break the sardines in half and put them in the pan with the tomato. Put the bread in the toaster, and set it to well-done. Gently heat the tomato-sardine mixture, taking care not to break up the tomato halves or sardines.4) Butter the toast, top it with the mixture and season generously with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper. MINI PILCHARD BURGERSServes 6These patties look surprisingly like beef burgers, and they taste great. The texture is softer than a meat burger, though, so it makes the patties more difficult to handle in the pan and also a bit squelchy in the roll. The solution is to make mini burgers. They look the part, they're tasty and there's no time to worry about patty texture. Two bites and they're gone. This is an adaptation of a Lannice Snyman recipe, for whom I have a devoted fondness.Ingredients:1 x 400g can pilchards in tomato sauce2 potatoesSea salt and freshly ground black pepper2 eggs, lightly beaten1 small onion, very finely chopped30ml (2 tbsp) chopped fresh parsleyCake flour, for coatingOil, for fryingMini burger rolls (look for "dinner rolls")Lettuce, tomato, gherkin and cheese, for fillingMethod:1) Drain and mash the pilchards. Keep the sauce if you want to use it in the burger. Or not.2) Cube the potatoes then cook in boiling, salted water until soft. Drain well, mash and season with salt and pepper.3) Mix together the pilchards, mashed potato, beaten egg, onion and parsley, and season with salt and pepper. Form into rounds the size of squash balls then press to make patties. Place the patties on a floured surface and coat with flour on both sides. Once all the mixture is used up, move as many floured patties as you intend to use onto a plate and into the fridge.4) Cover the bottom of a non-stick pan with oil and fry the fridge patties until crisp and golden brown. Drain on kitchen paper. Meanwhile cut your rolls in half and toast, cut-side down, in a griddle pan. Assemble your burgers according to preference with combinations of lettuce, tomato, gherkin, cheese, fried onion and tomato sauce. THE BEST, EASIEST SOUTHERN ITALIAN PASTA SAUCEServes 2This sauce has something in common with puttanesca. There's an overlap with the anchovies, the chillies and the spaghetti. The sauce is so simple, but it tastes so authentic. There are very few ingredients, but don't leave anything out.Ingredients:125g ( packet) dried spaghetti1 x 120g can sardines in oil, mashed4 anchovies, cut up2 generous pinches chilli flakes (or more, if you like)Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper15ml (1 tbsp) flat-leaf parsley leaves, choppedMethod:1) Boil the pasta in salted water until al dente.2) Meanwhile drain the sardines and mash. Add the chopped anchovy and chilli flakes. Put in a pan on low heat. The mixture will be quite dry; add a splash of the pasta cooking water and mix. Add another splash until the mixture is slightly creamy. Warm through.3) Drain the pasta then add to the pan. Mix, then serve. Season cautiously with salt and pepper, and scatter liberally with chopped parsley. MACKEREL CHUTNEYServes 1 to 2This is a terrific curry-for-one, to be eaten with toast or rice. The mackerel holds together much better than other canned fish, and there's no silver skin. There's something very South African about the taste of this dish.Ingredients:1 brown onion, finely sliced1 clove garlic, chopped (or 1 tsp garlic paste)2 tomatoes, chopped2.5ml ( tsp) chilli powder2.5ml ( tsp) turmeric1 x 125g flat can mackerel fillets in oilSea salt and freshly ground black pepperMethod:1) Gently fry the onion slices and garlic in a little oil, until starting to colour. Take your time. When the contents of the pan are soft, sweet and blonde, add the chopped tomato. Heat gently until the tomato and onion form a paste. Take it easy, don't rush.2) Now add the chilli powder and turmeric. Stir them in and allow to cook for a minute or so. Add some water from the kettle to form a thick sauce or gravy.3) Now add the mackerel fillets, broken into big chunks, and warm through. Season with salt and pepper before serving. This curry is lovely with a hot atchar or hot, fruity chutney. SARDINES AND PICKLED RED ONION ON TOASTServes 2I also call this "posh sardines on toast". Crushed sardines are spread onto hot toast in the usual, student-digsy kind of way, but with the addition of cream cheese, mustard, cayenne and lemon juice. It's almost a p t .Sweet pickled red onion:15ml (1 tbsp) olive oil, for frying1 small red onion, thinly sliced15ml (1 tbsp) caster sugar30ml (2 tbsp) red wine vinegar15ml (1 tbsp) small capers, drained30ml (2 tbsp) chopped fresh parsleySardines:2 x 100g flat cans sardines in oil (preferably smoked Brisling)5ml (1 tsp) English mustard15ml (1 tbsp) cream cheeseLarge pinch of cayenne pepperFresh lemon juice, to tasteSea salt and freshly ground black pepper4 slices dense handmade bread (preferably sourdough)Method:1) For the onion, heat the oil in a non-stick pan, then add the sliced onion and cook gently, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes. The onion should be tender, but not coloured. Add the sugar, vinegar and capers and stir through. Remove from the heat and add the parsley.2) Put your bread in the toaster.3) Make the sardine p t like this: remove the sardines from their oil and mash in a flat dish. Add the mustard, cream cheese, cayenne pepper and lemon juice. Check for seasoning, it shouldn't need much - if any.4) Press the sardine p t roughly onto the toast with a fork. Now arrange the pickled onion on top. This dish goes well with a cup of tea and an architecture journal. Recipes and images Star Fish: Top 10 Sustainable Fish , by Daisy Jones (Quivertree Publications, R450), a book of ocean-friendly fishy delights (most not from a can). Star Fish was the winner of the 2014 Sunday Times Cookbook Awards.