PEANUT BUTTER CINNAMON ICE-CREAM WITH PEANUT BRITTLEServes 8Ingredients:6 egg yolks100g ( cup) caster sugar500ml (2 cups) full-cream milk5ml (1 tsp) vanilla extract2.5ml ( tsp) ground cinnamon30ml (2 tbsp) unsweetened peanut butter200ml fresh creamFor the brittle:45ml (3 tbsp) water45ml (3 tbsp) caster sugar45ml (3 tbsp) roasted peanutsMethod:1) Beat the egg yolks and sugar in a bowl.2) In a medium pot, bring the milk, vanilla and cinnamon to the boil.3) Slowly pour the hot milk mixture into the egg mixture, stirring continuously until you have a smooth custard.4) Return to the pot and cook over low heat until thick enough to coat the back of a wooden spoon.5) Remove from heat and pass through a sieve. Cool in a bowl placed over iced water.6) In a blender, mix 125ml ( cup) of the cooled custard with the peanut butter. Keep adding custard and blending until the mixture has gone from oily and gloopy to smooth and creamy.7) Whip the cream and fold in. Transfer to an ice-cream machine and churn/freeze according to instructions.8) For the brittle, heat the water and sugar in a pot until caramelising (turning amber), then throw in the peanuts and stir. Pour out quickly onto an oiled surface to set. Crack up when cool.9) Serve the ice cream with bits of brittle scattered on top.Cook's tip:If you're pressed for time use shop-bought peanut brittle. BEETROOT SORBET WITH YOGHURT &amp; BLACK PEPPERServes 6Ingredients:250ml (1 cup) water100g ( cup) caster sugar15ml (1 tbsp) glucose syrup or runny honey300g beetroot, boiled till soft, peeled and chopped (start with about 350g raw beetroot to get 300g yield)Juice of 1 lemonJuice of an orangeSalt, to tasteFull-cream yoghurt, to serveFreshly ground black pepper, to serveMethod:1) Heat water, sugar and glucose syrup in a small pot just until sugar has dissolved to form a syrup. Set aside to cool.2) Once syrup is cold, place in a food processor with the beetroot and blend until very smooth. Mix in the lemon juice and orange juice and season with salt to taste.3) Freeze in ice-cream machine according to instructions. This can be kept in the fridge for up to 3 days. Remove from the fridge about 20 minutes before serving. Serve with yoghurt and black pepper.Cook's tip:This ice-cream is also great with feta and orange rind. SLIGHTLY TRASHY CONDENSED MILK AND TURKISH DELIGHT SEMI-FREDDOServes 8Ingredients:500ml (2 cups) fresh cream200g ( a can) condensed milk180ml ( cup) Turkish delight, chopped into small piecesMethod:1) Whip the cream until stiff. It must be really firm, but be careful not to go to the curdly-butter stage.2) Fold in the condensed milk, then the Turkish delight. Scoop into a container, cover and freeze for about 8 hours.3) Cut into thick slices and eat with berries, or serve plain in cones.Cook's tip:If making ahead of time, remove from the freezer 15 minutes before serving and allow to soften. SALTY CUCUMBER, BASIL AND LIME GRANITAServes 4Ingredients:300g cucumber, peeled and choppedHandful fresh mint leavesHandful fresh basil leavesFinely grated rind and juice of 1 large lemon or 2-3 limes5ml (1 tsp) caster sugar2.5ml ( tsp) coarse salt, or to tastePinch of white pepperMethod:1) Place all the ingredients in a food processor and blend until smooth. Check the sour, sweet and salt balance and adjust to taste, remembering that it will taste less sweet and slightly more salty once frozen.2) Pack into a plastic container with a lid and freeze, scraping with a fork every hour to break up the ice crystals.3) Serve in small glasses, topped with a shot of gin (optional in an emergency). JACOB KENNEDY'S MILK-FREE ESPRESSO GELATOServes 4Ingredients:200ml espresso + 100ml water (or use 300ml double-strength plunger coffee in an emergency)100g ( cup) caster sugar15ml (1 tbsp) glucose syrup or light runny honey6 large egg yolksMethod:1) Combine the coffee, water, sugar and glucose syrup in small pan and bring to the boil slowly.2) Once boiled, whisk in the egg yolks immediately and then take off the heat.3) Put through a sieve into a bowl and leave to cool to room temperature (place bowl in a sink filled with cold water to speed this up).4) Freeze in an ice-cream machine according to instructions. Serve very small portions.