For his Dolphins counterpart Lance Klusener, there was no Zulu Bravo. The only time the Dolphins looked like containing the Titans inside their 159 for five was when Quinton de Kock s leading edge found safe hands in the covers early in the chase.Mangaliso Mosehle, however, turned what looked like a competitive total into short work with an innings in which he inspired and infuriated, depending which side of the fence you re on. He smashed 87 to set his team on an inexorable path to victory in a record second wicket stand of 123 with Henry Davids. He savaged Imran Tahir in his second over, taking 24 off the Proteas leggie but there were also four byes.His wagon wheel of boundaries would have made for some interesting reading as he either brutally clubbed the ball straight or edged it riskily over the keeper.Either way it was an innings that set this match on a course from which it could not deviate Davids was more measuredin compiling 35 with some trademark stroke play. Earlier in the day, two Bell Ranger helicopters carried the nine fans who took one handed catches throughout the tournament to the stadium.Former Proteas batsman Boeta Dippenaar was at the controls of one. With Dippenaar at the controls there was no chance of acrobatics, aerial or otherwise, and it was in that spirit the Dolphins started their innings.Morne van Wyk s start was sedate until he thread Albie Morkel through the covers for four before audaciously flicking the allrounder over square leg for six off the next ball.The advent of spin at the completion of the powerplay brought about a change in fortunes. Van Wyk was caught on the point boundary, forcing the child prodigy to make way for one of the game s most celebrated late bloomers. As the tournament s leading run scorer, batting virtuoso and exiled martyr, there was naturally an air of anticipation preceding Kevin Pietersen s arrival at the crease.The problem with oversized anticipation is that it can bring rapid deflation. Pietersen never took centre stage in the way we know he can but his brief stay was not without incident. As if the sponsor s prize for a onehanded catch applied to fielders, Farhaan Behardien ran in from long-on and lunged forward, only for the ball to spill from his grasp.He was caught at Cow Corner for 10 but David Miller (33 off 25 balls) with measured aggression and Dwayne Bravo(53 off 30 balls) through all manner of fancy footwork elevated the Dolphins innings into the realm of respectability. In the end though it wasn t enough.