Amir, who is in the selection mix after serving a five-year ban for his role in the 2010 spot-fixing scandal, was one of the 26 probables named for the pre-season conditioning camp in the build-up to the New Zealand tour. On Thursday both Azhar and Hafeez were scheduled to join the camp after completing their domestic matches, but they did not do so. Azhar went on to state that he would not attend the camp "as long as Amir is there".The players, however, decided to join the training camp after meeting with PCB chairman Shaharyar Khan."They both met and decided to join the training camp," Khan said, after a final meeting with the players. "I do respect their concerns but some of them, I told them, are not acceptable. So they understood and confirmed that they are on the same page as us and now we are looking forward to the success of the team." Amir had been allowed to return to cricket ahead of schedule by the ICC in January this year and has impressed in Pakistan's domestic first-class competition and in the Bangladesh Premier League. He was also signed up by the Karachi Kings franchise for the upcoming Pakistan Super League. Khan urged both players to respect Amir and extend their full support to the bowler, who has completed his punishment. Apart from the five-year suspension, Amir was given a six-month jail sentence and he served half of it at the Portland Young Offenders Institution in Dorset.Hafeez was happy that Khan had agreed to listen to his reservations and said he would continue to oppose corruption."My stance has been simple all the way, that anyone who damages the pride and integrity of the country should not be given a chance again," he told the media after agreeing to return to the camp. "It was my principle stance and will remain the same throughout my life."Playing cricket is my passion and I don't need to convince people about my talent. I know I am an average player but I won an honour to represent Pakistan and I vow to contribute to the success of Pakistan. I will, in my humble capacity, continue to support every player."