There's nothing wrong with the word "festive", of course. I could find no evidence of anyone who finds it offensive, partly perhaps because its purpose is to avoid any offence that might be caused by more religious words. A confounding conflagration of "cons""Festive" is secular, agnostic, non-denominational. It is a word associated with feelings of good cheer caused by holidays and celebrations (or sales, if its incessant use in the commercial firmament is anything to go by). It comes from "festival", which comes from the Latin festus, whence cometh also "feast".Feasts and festivals were once religious occasions, but both words shed the mantle of faith eons ago. Nowadays there are festivals for everything. Invite a bunch of people to an event aimed at anything from selling books to racing hedgehogs, and suddenly it's a festival. If the festive season is the season of festivals, then the festive season never ends, because there is always a festival going on.Some festivals, such as those attached to harvests and sardines, are seasonal; others can happen at any time. There seems to be a festival "showcasing" some alcoholic beverage every second week. And then there are the more interesting festivals, the ones that make you ponder the sentience of humankind, the ones journalists like to publish in lists headed "the world's weirdest festivals".The Spanish tomato-throwing festival almost always appears on these lists. The other entries are a mixed bag of cheese-rolling, wife-carrying, tuna-tossing, sheep-shearing, pumpkin-catapulting, radish-carving, barrel-burning, onion-eating, bog-snorkelling, camel-wrestling (not to mention toe-wrestling) and baby-jumping festivals.That last one, by the way, has a misleading name. One might expect to see physically advanced babies tottering around a field and launching themselves over obstacles (rattles balanced on pots of bum cream, perhaps) to land softly on their nappies, but in fact the babies do not jump. Adults attend the festival to watch other adults leap over blankets on which several non-jumping babies have been laid end-to-end. There is some life-affirming significance to this, apparently, and there seems to be no record of a jumper failing to make the leap, which is fortunate for the babies.Which brings us back to "festive". Festivals are supposed to be festive, but you can bet there is nothing festive about the feelings of a wife dropped during the wife-carrying festival, or a sheep given a bad haircut during the sheep-shearing festival (never mind a tuna tossed during the tuna-tossing festival). Navigating the labyrinthine tunnels of languageJust as festivals have escaped the confines of religion, festive has unshackled itself from festival and become a free agent. In some places it is a slang word that takes the place of "rad", "cool" or "dope". "How was your exam, Dude?" "Festive."Festive has not yet festered to the point of annoying overuse, except when it is attached to "season". In a charming post on the Essay Forum website, which offers writing help to students, an undergraduate wrote: "My favourite word is festive. I like festive because when the word is said, the word is felt too. I feel compelled to say the word festive in a festive, emphatic manner ... When one hears the word festive in reference to an object or event, it cloaks the direct object with an inner feeling of festivity."The student's name is not attached to this essay, which is perhaps a good thing, because one's recorded words can have a way of resurfacing at awkward moments in later life. "So, Corporal Smithers, would you like to cloak this weapon with an inner feeling of festivity?"I am in sympathy with young Smithers on one point, however. He or she concluded the essay by saying: "Happy is just not good enough for describing how one feels during the holidays. Festive is so much better ... Variety is missing from our grammar and only we can take back the power of words. I am just doing my part to make the English language more festive."May your holidays be happier than happy, and may all your festivals be festive.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.