Con man is an abbreviation of "confidence man", a person who gains your confidence in order to swindle you. The term began to be used in American English in the 1850s and gained traction after the 1923 publication of Edward H Smith's book, Confessions of a Confidence Man: A handbook for suckers. How prices impact the wording on a restaurant menu"Con" may no longer be fashionable as a word for fraudsters, but it is still used as an abbreviation for convicts, particularly in the case of "ex-cons". ("Conscript", however, does not refer to a letter written by a prisoner.)During its congested career, "con" has also stood in for confidant, conundrum, conformist, contract, conductor and conservative. Given its strong connection with cheats and criminals, one can understand why members of the UK's Conservative Party chose to call themselves "Tories" instead of "Cons". (A "Tory", incidentally, was originally an Irish brigand. Talk about reclaiming words.)There are pages of words starting with "con". Many of these, like convict, rely on pronunciation to indicate their purpose. Put the accent on "con" and you have a prisoner. Emphasise "vict" instead and you are declaring someone guilty of a crime.The same is true of conduct (behaviour) versus conduct (to direct); convert (one who has been changed) versus convert (to reconstruct); and contest (a competition) versus contest (to argue).If you are a consummate chess player (accent on "con"; last syllable pronounced "mitt") you are very good at chess. When you consummate a marriage, on the other hand, the emphasis is firmly on "mate".English can be a bastard, as they say in beginners' classes.Some con words change meaning entirely when the accent moves. A console is a table, or the control board of a computer game. To console is to comfort a fish whose friends from the east or west coast (or Dover, for that matter), have been cooked and served with lemon butter. (Yes I know it can mean to give anyone succour, but that's a useful way of remembering it.)Content is what you find inside a book or a wardrobe. Content is a happy bunny hiding under a canvas shelter on a stormy nightMoving on from the vagaries of pronunciation, there is more fun to be had with con words. "Continent", as a noun, means a large mass of land. As an adjective it describes one who exercises self-restraint. Both noun and adjective come from the Latin continere, meaning "hold together". Hair-raising thoughts about Movember A continent person used to be one who controlled their emotions, then one who controlled their sexual impulses, but since the 19th century the word has been applied to one who controls those functions involved with the removal of bodily waste. "Incontinent" is its opposite, and is hardly ever used to mean one who lives on a large mass of land.A friend of mine once coined the marvellous word "inconsonant" to describe the slurred speech of those who lose control of their consonants after imbibing an excess of fluids (people who could equally, come to think of it, be incontinent). I hope it catches on. The word, I mean, not the overindulgence."Inconsonant" is in fact a real word. It means to be out of harmony or in a state of disagreement, but I prefer my friend's interpretation."Consistency" is a reliable word that means either the regularity with which something happens or the texture of a substance. It is a word that can consistently be used by both the continent and the incontinent.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.