POLYDIOXANONE (PDO) THREAD LIFT: FOR A QUICK NIP AND TUCKTextured threads are inserted under sagging skin to lift and sculpt areas around the jaw and chin. It sounds scary to us too, but Dr Anushka Reddy of Medi-Sculpt explains: "The threads used in this procedure are absorbable ones made of PDO material, which is similar to the threads used in surgical stitches, so they are completely safe and do not cause any damage to the tissue." Entry and exit areas are anaesthetised for the thread, which is then implanted into the subdermal skin. Reddy adds: "The concept behind the PDO thread lift is that it continuously stimulates collagen synthesis under the skin, acting as a 'scaffold', and helps it fight against the effects of gravity. The webbing of threads also shapes the face by lifting and supporting sagging structures." Fancy a mini-facelift? Visit medisculpt.co.za.Try this at home: Clarins Bust Beauty Extra-Lift Gel, R530. Don't forget to look after your bust and throat by keeping skin hydrated. The gel includes oat sugars, which create an invisible "bra" and help define shape. Apply from the breasts to the base of the chin. Vampire facials, 'Loub Jobs' & other wonderfully weird beauty treatmentsBTL VANQUISH: TO MELT AWAY YOUR MUFFIN TOPDoes a device that makes fat cells disappear permanently without dieting sound too good to be true? Introducing Vanquish, which uses radio frequency to contour the body. You lie beneath panels that emit a low heat, which warms up fat cells to 44 C, effectively bursting them, without damaging any of your tissues or organs, and your body naturally eliminates the lipids. No pain, and no downtime needed after treatment. One session costs R2,500 and four sessions are recommended. To find an aesthetician near you, visit btlaesthetics.com.Try this at home: Environ Body Profile, R350, is a light and fresh gel that helps with contouring and smooths and improves skin tone. BTL LYMPHASTIM: FOR A CIRCULATION BOOSTImprove your lymphatic system by stimulating blood flow with a treatment that feels like the most relaxing massage. You climb into a fitted suit, which fills up with pressurised air in different sections, and feel a firm pressure around thighs, calves, feet and buttocks. Benefits include a mechanised lymphatic-drainage option and relief for muscle stiffness. One 30-minute session costs between R250 and R300 and six to 10 are recommended, a week apart. Visit btlaesthetics.com.Try this at home: Elemis Sp@Home Aching Muscle Super Soak, R730. A refreshing, herby bath rub or soak helps relieve stiff muscles. Ingredients include rosemary, juniper, thyme and cloves. Beat the clock: 5 anti-ageing ingredients that actually workBTL INTIMA: FOR VAGINAL REJUVENATIONThe device works similarly to Vanquish by using radio frequency to stimulate collagen synthesis in the vulva. It's described as the only non-invasive labia-remodelling device - and pain-free, too - and has been clinically proven to improve the appearance of internal and external labia and increase sexual satisfaction. Each treatment costs R3,000 and four are recommended for the best results. Visit btlaesthetics.com.Try this at home: Noreva Kerapil Dermo-Regulating Care, R220. If you're dedicated to bikini waxes, keep the skin free of in-grown hairs by using a gentle exfoliating cream. FILLERS &amp; BOTOX: FOR WRINKLE REDUCTIONAesthetic practitioner Dr Melanie Lambrechts says clients are realising that "one visit to a clinic each year doesn't create the outcome they are hoping for. They land up spending much more in this session, with a result that realistically cannot be long-lasting and transformational. Most aesthetic centres are able to help women work within their budget to slowly transform for a more pleasing and youthful expression. This generally means a visit for skin rejuvenation at least once a month and for more advanced procedures every three months." She adds that clients are increasingly exposed to programmes featuring surgery and injectables "gone wrong", leaving many afraid to try any procedures at all. To put your mind at ease, "gone wrong" scenarios account for a tiny fraction of results around the world. For more information, visit centreofwellness.co.za. Try this at home: Skinceuticals Physical Fusion, R598 for 50ml, is a weightless sunscreen liquid made from 100% minerals and is ideal for post-procedure skin protection.