These are the thoughts that ran through my mind a few weekends ago as I found myself at the Silverstar Casino in Krugersdorp, attending a 45th birthday party.At some point I left the party venue to rest my knees after a hectic bout of dancing to '90s music. I ran into a former colleague as I walked through the slots machine section. Even though his mouth said, "Long time! Fancy seeing you here!" his bloodshot eyes were singing a different tune: "Et tu, Ndumiso?" Because of my well-advertised aversion to gambling, I had to suppress the almost uncontrollable urge to explain to him that I haven't cracked and that I remain, as ever, cursed with the inability to gamble. Hollywood needs speech therapistsThe first time I ever played the slots machines in a casino was also the last time. It was Christmas time, almost exactly 20 years ago. A friend who has been bestowed with the gift of gambling in abundance came to my place in Pinetown and asked me to accompany him to the Wild Coast Casino in the Transkei. For the benefit of the younger generation who are wondering why we didn't just go to Sun Coast Casino; it didn't exist back then. You see, the National Party government, with its resolute Christian sensibilities, strictly forbade any gambling within the confines of the republic. Yes sir; gambling was confined to Bantustans such as the Transkei and Bophuthatswana.And this is how I ended up at the Wild Coast Casino with my friend insisting that I, too, participate. For the first two hours or so, I politely declined and remained firmly planted at the bar with a glass of amber-coloured liquid in my hand. But he was relentless. Apparently it would make him feel less guilty about his habit if I also played a little. I use the word "played" loosely because I have never considered gambling a game. I reckon that standing in a carpeted, windowless room with psychedelic lights spinning all around and throwing money down a chute is an extremely serious business.When I pleaded poverty my friend shoved a R50 note under my nose and insisted I play. So I did. Within 10 minutes my R50 had become R600. Continuing to play did not make any sense at all so I stopped, went to cash up and went back to the bar to feed the slot machine leading to my belly with more beer. My friend was mortified. Apparently you don't stop playing when you hit a winning streak. It just isn't done. But I had felt sufficiently dumb for one night and gave him most of the R600 to continue gambling until the casino retrieved its R600 and the R1,000 he'd originally come with.I didn't share that story to point out the absurdity of gambling or to ridicule folks who enjoy doing it. Each to his or her own.I just want to illustrate that gambling is a gift the universe has never bestowed upon me. But more importantly, I am trying to point out just how paradoxical it is that someone like me should find myself in a casino as often as I do.When I ran into that ex-colleague at Silverstar, it occurred to me that for someone who doesn't gamble, I spend a lot of time in casinos these days. In the last two years alone I think I've been to Montecasino, Emperor's Palace, GrandWest, Golden Horse, Carnival City and Blackrock at least a combined 20 times in total. That's a lot of Spurs visits for a vegetarian.Explaining that I only ever go there for music concerts, parties, dining and comedy shows sounds an awful lot like folks who insist that they frequent The Grand for its great cuisine.You have to admit that positioning casinos as entertainment and dining arenas, as opposed to places where the chain-smoking weak-willed go to voluntarily flush cash down the drain, is sublime ingenuity by the casino bosses.It provides them with a steady supply of fresh meat, because after a good meal and a few double Scotches, it is not inconceivable for a non-gambler to think, "Let me go try my luck with the R250 in my wallet. Where's the harm?"For most people that's where it ends. But for some, fast forward two years and they're on their backs like a turtle, unable to get back up.Don't get me wrong. I'm not suggesting that the casino business is unscrupulous or that people who patronise these places are worse human beings than the rest of the population. Be prepared to cough up extra "Black tax" over ChristmasWe're all gamblers in one form or another. Even an ostensibly responsible, mature decision to invest in JSE stocks, retirement annuities, government bonds or even your good ol' provident fund comes with a healthy dose of risk. This was illustrated last week when The Gambler at the Union Buildings played Russian roulette with the Finance Ministry and billions of rand went "poof".All I'm saying is that there are levels of gambling I'm uncomfortable with, especially when it comes to my offspring. And I'm finding that there are too many kiddies' events at casinos that I'm unwittingly dragged to. I worry that the kids will grow up thinking of frequenting casinos as a normal way of life.And this is why I have decided to inculcate a healthy, warm and fuzzy unlucky feeling in my kids. Most people who gamble do so because they believe they were born lucky. And that's why whenever I play board games with the kids, I cheat relentlessly to cement that unfortunate aura around them. And when I think they're not getting it, I say: "You're one unlucky bastard. Never go to the casino."E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo