Yes, they are in possession of the Ashes again, but even the most dyed-in-the-wool Aussie will tell you they resembled saggy greens earlier this year.Pakistan, perhaps, brought some perspective by recently beating England, but the Proteas too now have much to lament.England have some selection ponderables. They need to find an opening partner for captain Alastair Cook, settle on a No 3 and find solutions in the wicketkeeping and spin departments. "They have tinkered with that position for the longest time," said former Proteas opener Neil McKenzie about the opening berth.England have Alex Hales and Nick Compton as the most likely candidates. The uncapped Hales shot to prominence as a 16-year-old when he hit 52 off an over (three no-balls, eight sixes, one four). Should he get the nod he will be Cook's eighth partner since the retirement of Andrew Strauss.There is also Moeen Ali, but the spinning allrounder will probably bat at eight.McKenzie, asserts that England are less accomplished on bouncier surfaces. "Cook is the banker but while Joe Root is established he is not established on bouncier wickets. This will be a test for him."Former test spinner Clive Eksteen agrees. "Hopefully we can get Root in while the ball is still new. It will be a key part of the series. We need to expose their middle order." England have opted against the experience of Ian Bell. "It will bring into question No 3, who is also untested," said Eksteen. Gary Ballance, who got dropped during the Ashes, is England's most likely option, with Root further removed from the new ball at No 4.Wicketkeeper Jonny Bairstow is the designated No 5, followed by allrounder Ben Stokes, although he is yet to fully recover from a shoulder injury. "He plays at Durham where it is a tough place to bat," remarked McKenzie. "As a result, when he plays in tests he plays with more freedom. He is their most improved player. He relishes a good battle."Eksteen noted:"He's aggressive but it will depend how they go upfront," noted "Those overs between 50 and 80 the ball most times will be soft. You can get on top of the bowling."Without injured Stephen Finn and Mark Wood, as well as Liam Plunkett, England appear a little thin of first- change bowlers.TEST SQUADAlastair Cook, Moeen Ali, James Anderson, Jonny Bairstow, Gary Ballance, Stuart Broad, Jos Buttler, Nick Compton, Mark Footitt, Alex Hales, Chris Jordan, Samit Patel, Joe Root, Ben Stokes, James Taylor, Chris Woakes.