The tale of best friends Amur and Timur has spread from Vladivostok to Victoria, Visby and Vereeniging. The latest news is that a South Korean director plans to make a film of them.If you have somehow managed to miss the story, it concerns a Siberian tiger called Amur who lives in the Primorsky safari park on the Pacific coast of Russia. As far as I can tell, Timur the goat did not have a proper name until Amur decided to befriend him - he was simply known as Dinner.Let into the park as prey for the tiger, the goat now called Timur either misunderstood his orders or deliberately chose to revolt. Showing no fear, he head-butted the first striped creature he met. Amur the tiger was so thrilled to have a friend that he chose not to eat the billy goat but instead invited him to share his sleeping enclosure by night and play games in the snow by day.Tiger makes friends with goat that was meant to be his dinner (videos)Amur has been fed rabbits since making this decision, presumably in case the introduction of another, more cowardly goat might remind him that his new buddy is made of meat. Reports say that he has been trying to tempt Timur away from vegetarianism by teaching him to hunt said rabbits. So far, Timur is not biting.The language of reportage around this event has been rich in hyperbole. Intimations of lions lying down with lambs abound. Zoo chief Dmitry Mezentsev called it "a sign from above", showing the world that if such different animals can live together in peace, there can be an end to war. A popular gazette devoted its op-ed page to the animals, saying: "One would like to believe it is possible not to gobble up the weak but be friends with them." Russia's largest paper called for "any news on the tiger and the goat?" as its response to the embattled exchange rate.By the time you read this, Amur might have remembered his tigerish nature and Timur might be curry, but on the morning I write, they are hiding behind trees and dashing out at each other like happy kittens.Without diminishing the miracle, there might be some biological factor involved. Perhaps Timur is less hircinious - a largely obsolete word meaning "having a goat-like odour" - than most of his cloven-hoofed fellows. Or perhaps he is just brave.Whether or not this strange liaison endures, for a while he has given hope to a world usually bent on finding scapegoats for its shortcomings rather than heroes from which it can learn.A scapegoat was once a real goat sent into the wilderness on the Day of Atonement, symbolically carrying away the sins of the Hebrew people. The English word was coined by Tyndale, who translated the Latin Bible into English - a task not without its dangers, as any fan of Wolf Hall will know. A confounding conflagration of "cons"Only in 1824, according to the Online Etymology Dictionary, did scapegoat take on the colloquial meaning: "One who is blamed or punished for the mistakes or sins of others."Despite the best efforts of teachers, the perverted term "escape goat" seems to have invaded modern English. Should we burn these word abusers at the stake as Tyndale's supporters were burnt, or should we be lenient and let the escape goats join our linguistic flock?Before you roar and shake your stripes in protest, think of how the word "scapegoat" has already changed - from a praiseworthy creature that allowed humans to live better lives, to one who is unfairly made out to be responsible for their mistakes.The original scapegoat was closer to an escape goat, if you ask me. I think we should follow the example of Amur and Timur and stop fighting about the rigid use of words that have already moved beyond their original forms. Let us allow new developments in language to take us to new and surprising places. After all, if a tiger can be friends with a goat, anything can happen.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.