1. Teeny weeny afros (aka TWA) hit the runwayOdd that the TWA would make a runway debut in 2015 (instead of lifetimes ago) but we'll take our victories where we can. Maria Borges made Victoria's Secret Fashion Show runway history as the first of its models to rock her TWA, a refreshing change from the streams of swishing long hair. She's no stranger to the show but this was the first year that she walked without a weave. And Lineisy Montero's TWA walked over 60 shows for SS16 - the most shows for any model in one season. Unbeweavable!2. Top makeup artist strikes gold with an innovative new productInternationally renowned creative director and head makeup artist Pat McGrath quite literally hit gold with the now sold-out limited-edition Gold 001 pigment , her debut beauty product. McGrath's creation allowed users (well, those of us lucky enough to bag some Gold 001) to use the microfine pigment, metal spatula, second-life container and Mehron mixing liquid to create a mix of our own liking, from gilded eyelids to light dustings on skin for extreme luminosity. A photo posted by Pat McGrath (@patmcgrathreal) on Nov 15, 2015 at 12:22pm PST A photo posted by Pat McGrath (@patmcgrathreal) on Nov 19, 2015 at 10:48am PST 3. Benefit makes a comebackQuirky San Francisco brand Benefit returned to South Africa this year, and mostly we're thankful to have the multitasking miracle that is Benetint, as well as Porefessional primer, back in our lives again. Topping our festive wish list? Benefit Hoola Bronzing Powder, R345, for an all-over summery glow. Stock up on your own Benefit favourites at Edgars in Sandton City, Clearwater Mall, Canal Walk, Mall of the South, Menlyn Park, V&amp;A Waterfront and the Pavilion and Red Square Cresta, Canal Walk and Gateway. 5 fashion highlights that made 2015 memorable 4. Clarisonic launches in SAScoot over Oxford, we've got a contender for the laughing emoji. The Fashion Weekly word of the year was undoubtedly Clarisonic, a sonic cleansing system that launched locally this year. It's quickly become the global number one cleansing brush recommended by dermatologists, aestheticians and spa professionals, and we can't get enough of the silky clean feeling it gives your skin - with minimal effort.Try Clarisonic Mia 2, R2,499; Clarisonic Aria Sonic Skin Cleansing Brush, R2,999; and Clarisonic Plus Sonic Skin Cleansing Brush, R3,499. You're unlikely to regret it. Exclusive to Stuttafords.5. Oud becomes a familiar scent The ingredient of the year goes to Oud, a rich, woody note that's become a local mainstay. Three of our favourites of the year: Boss Bottled Oud EDP, R1,150 for 50ml; Gucci Intense Oud EDP, R1,475 for 50ml, and Tom Ford Tobacco Oud EDP, R2,325 for 50ml.6. The model who made a bold statement on InstagramNykhor Paul, @nykhor, took a stand on Instagram and criticised makeup artists who are unprepared when working on a black model's skin. "Please don't take this the wrong way but it's time you people get your shit right when it comes to our complexion! Why do I have to bring my own makeup to a professional show ... Don't try to make me feel bad because I am blue-black, it's 2015." Spot on!