There was a great deal of clapping. After it had finished, we walked buoyantly into the street, agreeing with each other that it was a lovely evening. But what, actually, had made it so extra-nice? A friend put her finger on it: "You know what the best thing was? There was no Q&amp;A session afterwards." She was right. It was a game-changer.A thing that adults sometimes say to kids is: "There are no stupid questions, only stupid answers." This is with an eye to fostering intellectual growth and curiosity et cetera. It's good for small children to hear this. The same cannot be said about adults. Adults need to learn that there is definitely such a thing as a stupid question, and there are an incredible lot of them. It's easier to be cool in the digital ageI don't necessarily mean stupid like, "Can you tell me if a chicken is an animal or a bird?" or "Are skeletons real or made up?" These are real questions I found on Yahoo Answers, and while they are indeed pretty dumb, they are not the ones I mean. The very stupidest and most distressing questions are the ones which are impossible to answer. They are not really questions but statements crafted to display the wit and/or intellect of the speaker. These are the questions which occur most frequently in Q&amp;A sessions.Who likes Q&amp;A sessions? Who looks forward to them? Who has ever found out something that they actually wanted to know? They are designed to lower morale and drain us of our life-force.Post-graduate students, academics, and nerds in general are the worst culprits, the askers of the most pointless, show-offy questions. These are people with a chip on their shoulder, and a great deal to prove. As a post-grad myself, I have heard more show-offy questions than this world could possibly have use for. I have asked a few myself, and it makes me feel sick with shame thinking about it even now.According to many seasoned, bitter veterans of the Q&amp;A circuit, it is men who are most likely to hog the microphone and proceed to tell the speaker what is what. Perhaps this is true, but I will say that it's most often the people you least expect. See that lady over there who is my old primary school teacher? She sat through the whole book launch nodding and laughing at the right times, seeming totally sane, but please do not give her the microphone. We will all lose at least 10 minutes of our lives. Her question will go something like this:"Here is an inquiry that is fundamentally about me. I don't really care what you think about it, as long as you heartily agree. Here is my hope, that as we all leave the venue, someone seeks me out and says, 'Good God, what a question. The depth of your insight is such that I have no choice but to offer you this handful of money and fall in love with you."It's too much. It must be stopped. The only question worth asking in a Q&amp;A session is how we put an end to this horror once and for all.