This is according to Lew Geffen, chairman, Lew Geffen Sotheby s International Realty, who says even if homeowners don t go away, their properties are more frequently left empty during the season due to shopping trips and social events so it s imperative they are adequately secured. It is important that your alarm is serviced and in working order before you go away. Fit suitable locks and bolts to sliding doors to prevent burglars from lifting the glass off its tracks the most common method of break-in. Make sure the property s exterior is illuminated with motion-detector spotlights and outdoor lighting fixtures as a well-lit home is less likely to be broken into, he says.Geffen says a part of a property that could be better secured is the garage door which should be checked for loose springs, joints, rust, cracks or weaknesses. Check that it is connected to the alarm system and the garage door opener should be unplugged when you re away for an extended period. He says a pet door also allows access to reach inside and unlock the door and is often easy to cut into a larger hole allowing a person to fit through.7 ways to safeguard your home while you're on holidaySamuel Seeff, chairman, Seeff, says security has become one of the biggest considerations for homebuyers and is not something to be skimped on. He says damage caused during a break-in can be more expensive than having a good security system and insurance to cover damage or loss. Homes with good security are highly sought after and usually make it to the top of a buyer s list. Holiday and investment homes tend to be in locations far removed from the owner s place of residence, so protecting them and ensuring they grow in value also requires a focus on security, says Seeff.Theunis Kotze, general manager, ADT Inland Region, says homeowners should advise their security company of holiday plans before they leave so the company has updated information regarding keyholders and details of domestic workers, gardeners or house-sitters on the property. All outside locks should be a minimum of four lever locks or double-cylinder security locks and be in good working order. It is vital the alarm is armed when leaving the property as alarms are often not activated at the time of a break-in. Whether at home or going away during the festive season, make sure you prepare in advance to rest knowing your security system is in working order, says Kotze. This article was originally published in Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property &amp; lifestyle guides. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.