This, of course, doesn't mean that estate agents aren't doing their jobs and aren't out there searching for listings, it means one of two things: either the properties on offer are overpriced and are unlikely to sell at the listing price, or well-priced properties are snapped up before the ink is dry on the listing documentation.All in all, there is a drastic need for more properties in all areas and across all price ranges.Sales soar in Cape Town's sizzling CBD Since 2013, the Western Cape has been the most sought-after residential destination in the country, says Claudius Combrinck, MD, Adlab Advertising. It offers so much and is well run. The Cape Town CBD and specifically the Atlantic Seaboard are booming as the demand outstrips the supply. Lifestyle estates farther afield offer families a more wholesome sort of lifestyle and are virtually all selling well. Many developers have realised the strength of the market and those who are producing quality developments are reaping the rewards. Unfortunately, Combrinck says, developers aren't keeping up with demand. I believe that more people are migrating to the Western Cape than ever before and this trend is set to continue. Well-located, rezoned land for development is scarce and is priced at a premium this makes it challenging to keep up with demand. John Chapman, director, Rabie Property Group, says his company has seen phenomenal growth in recent years. The last three projects we developed sold out a year ahead of completion two of these, Mayfair and Matrix, within 45 minutes at their respective launches. Our most recent development in Century City, Waters Edge, which is larger than our previous projects has been selling extremely well. At this stage 106 of the 144 apartments (with a total value of more than R250m) have been sold within the first few days of the launch. Pricing is always going to be one of the most important aspects linked to any buying decision and although there is sure to be continued demand for up-market, luxury units, there is also a growing need for reasonably priced homes. The surge in demand for property throughout the Western Cape has proven to be a bonus for developers, says Riaan Roos, CEO, MSP Developments. What we have found, however, is that there is an urgent need for well-priced units in well-run estates which offer the right type of amenities. Buh-Rein Estate is a prime example of what happens when you deliver what the customer is looking for: namely, affordable property that's situated close to Cape Town, the business hubs of Durbanville, Tygerberg and Bellville, as well as the wine routes. He adds that all the homes on the estate are provided on a turnkey basis, which means buyers (including first-time buyers) don't pay until they move in. Our pricing structure enables us to include both bond and transfer costs, and we require no deposit or upfront booking fee, so if you decide to buy, the impact on your immediate cash flow is kept to an absolute minimum. This article was originally published in Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property &amp; lifestyle guides. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.