Asking someone to repeat themselves is already socially awkward enough, so you bite your tongue and nod, careful to convey neither sadness, joy or amusement lest it be the inappropriate response. A few seconds later, the storyteller excuses himself to get a cabernet refill, so you ask the other folks what he said and everyone shrugs. As it turns out, everyone was just nodding to be polite because the storyteller is a notorious mumbler. This has only ever happened to me? Oh, OK. Controversial songs are catchy as hellI hate mumblers. I have shared on these pages the aversion I have to the cinema. Besides forking out R200 for popcorn, Coke and jelly tots, I avoid the big screen because I'm not allowed to get up during a crucial moment in the movie and yell, "Please rewind that last bit. Keanu Reeves mumbled there!" And boy, does Keanu Reeves mumble. The only way to watch a Keanu Reeves movie is on DVD, at home, with thumb hovering over the rewind button.I enjoyed his 1999 flick The Matrix so thoroughly (on DVD) that when The Matrix Reloaded was released in 2003, I bought two tickets and went to watch with a friend. Silly me. About half an hour into the movie I had been reduced to one of those annoying people who keeps asking, "What did he say now?" Finally my friend turned to me in exasperation, "You know you don't have to hear every word, right? Just wait for the DVD."Reeves is in good company. Robert de Niro, Richard Gere, Harrison Ford and Sylvester Stallone come to mind. Anyone who says they understood a word Stallone said during that post-fight monologue in Rocky is a pathological liar. I have the movie on DVD and to this day all I hear is, "Tdhicbsoi ekdgvo wjdwi," punctuated with, "Adrian! Adrian!"Back in 1985 my friends and I were watching a VHS of First Blood, the first in that Rambo series, and we kept rewinding a part that sounded like he said, "Murder. I'm kakking to get down." That didn't sound right so we kept rewinding until someone finally figured out that he was saying, "Murdoch, I'm coming to get you." It's almost as if Stallone, Reeves and De Niro stuff cotton wool in their cheeks before tackling scenes. And it's not an accident that I haven't mentioned Marlon Brando in The Godfather because he deliberately stuffed cotton balls in his cheeks for the role. I think it's a sad indictment on these fellows that I actually understand every line Arnold Schwarzenegger or even Joe Pesci delivers but I have no idea what they are saying. It s as if Stallone, Keanu and De Niro stuff cotton wool in their cheeks before the camera rolls But it's not only movie stars who are notorious mumblers. Without the lyrics in front of me, most James Brown songs don't make any goddamned sense. I don't even think James Brown knew what James Brown was saying in some of his songs.The same goes for Michael Jackson, another notorious mumbler. I think I speak for billions of people across the world when I say that we all thought the Billie Jean lyrics were, "She's just a girl who claims that I am the one/But the girl is not my son," which was a bit of a mind screw because ... well, most girls are no one's son. And don't get me started on that other song, Beat It, that everybody in my neighbourhood insisted went, "Pee there, pee there/No one wants to pee to pee there."Here in South Africa we have classic mumblers. Former Bafana coach and current Sundowns gaffer Pitso Mosimane is one mumbling son of a gun. I don't watch too many Sundowns games but I have been known to call the midgets and ask them to record the post-match interviews. Pitso speaks like he believes he's doing everyone a favour and we should all be grateful for the effort.Still at home, we also have mumblers on the musical front. One of my favourite songs of 1994 is a song by Boom Shaka, It's About Time. However, 21 years later folks are still having raging debates about a rap delivered by group member Thembi Seete.I asked a few friends what they thought she was saying and one offered this line: "You gotta sneeze the knees to decease this." Another insists there's a line that goes: "I'm the soul, the typical, the extraordinary fillet who know me no and I'm peace like that." Some people have even suggested that the rap be declared a national key point. Musings about misheard lyrics In 1983 I had a moody teacher, a Mr Mtshali, who would go into mumbling mode from time to time. One morning he mumbled an inaudible instruction that sounded to me like, "Go outside and fetch some fuzzy wuzzy wuzzy."Asking him to repeat himself was out of the question so we all spilt out of the classroom in the hope of getting the instruction from classmates. It turns out that not one person had heard him, so we started guessing.Lehlohonolo, a Sotho-speaking classmate, insisted the teacher had asked us to each bring a clod of clay, and that's precisely what some of us returned to the classroom with. Some girls brought flowers and others tree branches. They all got a hiding except those of us who brought clay.So you can imagine my surprise when I got to university and interacted with Sotho speakers and discovered that the Sotho word for clay is not fuzzy wuzzy wuzzy.In unrelated news, Mrs N is adamant that I have a general hearing problem.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo