Lifestyle has become the new buzz word and, according to Seeff Yzerfontein agent, Michelle Livingstone-Louw, if you are looking for a real escape, it just does not get better than Ysterfontein. The area is renowned for its scenic bay, 25km of white sandy beaches and rocky coastline. The air is clean and the village is still regarded as quite safe. One of the advantages of the village is that it is not commercialised, so you will not find a shopping mall or other busy and noisy centres. There are, however, a few lovely eateries, the most famous of which is Strandkombuis: a rustic seafood restaurant located right on the beach, she says.The Atlantic Seaboard's X factor: Why buyers pay a premium for propertyLightstone statistics record that the average price paid for a freestanding home is about R1,4m, while a sectional title property is currently selling for around R1,2m. However, Livingstone-Louw says that the averages quoted on Lightstone include sales that have occurred in the lower end of the market, which pulls the average price down.In reality, she says prices tend to range between R500,000 and R1,2m for vacant plots with sea views, and between R2m and R5m for a beachfront stand. There are only a few apartments in the village and these are generally priced at around R1,2m for a two-bedroom unit. Modest houses, set back from the beach, start at around R1,3m for two bedrooms and range to about R2,6m for a luxury home. Closer to the beach, prices tend to range from about R4m to R8,5m. Although there aren't any schools in the village, Ilona du Toit, agent, Pam Golding Properties Yzerfontein, says transport is available to ferry children to either the Curro School in Langebaan or to Darling College in nearby Darling. She adds that although there is convenience shopping available in the village, most residents go to nearby Langebaan or into Cape Town itself for their monthly purchases. At this stage the village boasts a healthy mix of permanent residents and those who own holiday homes. However, there has definitely been an increase in buyers who are looking to settle in the area permanently and we currently have approximately 1,800 people who live in the village on a permanent basis. This article was originally published in Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property &amp; lifestyle guides. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.