According to the Cliff Richard hit song, this is what Christmas is about. Of course if you're from these parts, Christmas time is a bit different. Besides the obvious absurdity of putting logs on the fire during the regular heatwaves we experience during this period, there are other stark differences. SA's 'Afrillennials' torn between 'ubuntu tax' and living it up like KardashiansYou see, since the "discovery" of that shiny metal that has been making South Africa go around for over a century, millions of us have been spinning in the whirlpool of the migrant labour system. For our great grandfathers that often meant queuing up at Teba offices (The Employment Bureau of Africa) to volunteer to get swallowed up by the earth like mole rats, only to return to the "homelands" around this time of year, bags ostensibly laden with untold riches from the mines. And that is where the dreaded "black tax" phenomenon originated because, if home was in Lusikisiki in the Transkei, that meant spending your Christmas break attempting to stretch your meagre earnings among your family, extended family and pretty much the entire village.In case you've just crawled out from under a rock, "black tax" is a term loosely used to describe the resources that black people who are formally employed have to spend on parents, siblings, aunts, uncles, cousins and their dogs. In my circles, there is general consensus that SARS should be offering "black tax" rebates during tax season, but that's a discussion for another day. And while this is a year-round phenomenon, there's no time "black tax" comes into sharper focus than the Christmas holidays.I know a lot of people who are blissfully unaware that they are, in 2015, still migrant labourers. The difference is that where our forefathers queued at Teba offices, we're now armed with LinkedIn profiles. The litmus test as to whether you're a migrant labourer is this: do you and your friends ask each other "Uya nini ekhaya?" (When are you going home?") around late November/early December? And if you think places like Joburg become ghost towns from Bonus Weekend (around December 16) because everyone is off to Camps Bay, Knysna or the West Coast, think again. In the words of Kgomotso Matsunyane, who is a Joburg native, "Joburg is lovely in December when all the amagoduka have gone home". (Amagoduka is a cheeky word for people who work in big cities but call some place else home.)If you are a part of amagoduka, you will totally get this next bit. After the five- to 14-hour drive (depending on whether home is Pietermaritzburg or Dimbaza), you have to stop at Checkers or Pick n Pay to get a few bags of groceries, with a heavy emphasis on Choice Assorted biscuits, Quality Street sweets, bottles of Fanta and the obligatory big bottle of Oros. The biggest size possible. In my neck of the hood, we have a name for these purchases: umngenandlini. The word literally means, "goods used to enter the house", the thinly veiled threat there being that unless you bring some, you're not really welcome.Most hapless amagoduka will then spend the next few days in a daze as they haemorrhage cash through their pockets. Christmas clothes and toys for the kids in the house. New phones and Brazilian weaves for siblings. Two sheep; one for consumption on Christmas Day and another to be consumed in the days leading up to New Year's Eve to cater for the stream of visitors who rock up unannounced. At this time Makro is selling whisky, vodka and whatnot almost exclusively by the case, courtesy of this phase of the black tax. And this is even before the uncles and aunts who are part of the Ubuntu conveyor belt descend upon the household.Satan must rethink his rewards programmeThe third phase of this black tax orgy are random people in the neighbourhood. I remember walking past a group of guys I went to primary school with, chilling on the corner, sharing a few beer quarts. One fellow saw me and inevitably asked me to get them a few more beers. To motivate his request he added, "I used to protect you at school." That's not how I remember it. In fact, I remember a meeting between his left palm and my cheek during a game of marbles. But that water has long been under the bridge and, as I fiddled with my wallet, I bantered, "You guys already have beer" to which he responded, "But we want to taste beer bought with Joburg money."And that brings me a trick I have developed to deal with the black tax for random folks around the neighbourhood. I always go to the bank and withdraw "random tax" cash in low denominations; mostly R10 and R20 notes. This way, when I run into Gogo Shingamu at the shop and she reminds me (as she always does) that when I was 18 months old I got lost in church and she's the one who returned me to my folks, I have a R20 note handy. Trust me, there is nothing more annoying than opening your wallet to pay your taxes to discover all you have are R200 notes. That's a little too steep a price to pay for being rescued from the lost-and-found bin.Of course, one of the unwritten rules about the big day itself, Christmas, is that you cannot deny food to anyone who comes into the yard. This means over-catering to avoid being viewed as the stingy family. And if more than three or four guys from the neighbourhood decide to camp on your veranda, you have to provide a crate of beer quarts and a bottle. And if you're from KZN, by "bottle" I mean the original Smirnoff 1818. Nothing else will do, not even a 30-year-old single malt scotch. Just Smirnoff. All is well with the world then. And even as you call your banker in early January to ask for a deeper hole in your overdraft, you do so with a clear conscience, in the knowledge that your black tax brought great yuletide cheer to so many.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo