SHRIMP NOODLE SALADServes 2-4Ingredients:A bundle of rice or egg noodlesBoiling water15ml (1 tbsp) peanut oil250ml (1 cup) shrimps1 clove of garlic, crushed5ml (1 tsp) shrimp paste dissolved in 30ml (2tbsp) boiling water4 spring onions, finely sliced on the diagonal2 red chillies, seeded and finely choppedJuice of 1 lemonHandful of roasted peanuts, choppedMethod:1. Pour boiling water over noodles and leave to stand for 3-5 minutes then drain, rinse and set aside.2. Heat oil in a wok and fry shrimps quickly, adding garlic, shrimp paste, spring onions and chilli. Remove and toss with noodles, lemon juice and sprinkle over peanuts. CHICKEN AND PRAWN PARCELSMakes 10-12Ingredients:125g chicken mince60g shrimps, chopped into small pieces1 stalk spring onion, very finely sliced1 clove of garlic, finely chopped2.5ml ( tsp) cornflourPinch of salt and white pepperSmall piece of ginger, peeled and grateddash of soy sauce5ml (1 tsp) fish sauce2.5ml ( tsp) sesame oil10-12 wonton wrappersOil for deep-fryingMethod:1. In a mixing bowl combine chicken mince, shrimps, spring onion, garlic and cornflour. Add salt, pepper, ginger, soy and fish sauce and sesame oil and stir to blend. Set aside.2. Place a wonton wrapper in your palm and spoon 7.5ml ( 1 tsp) of filling into the middle. With your finger, rub some water around edges. Draw up sides of parcel pinching edges together, and twist to seal tightly, if desired3. Preheat oil for deep frying and fry the wontons for 2-3 minutes on each side till golden brown. Remove and drain on paper towel. Serve warm with sweet chilli dipping sauce. GINGER FISHServes 2 -4Ingredients:1 whole fish, about 700-800g, cleaned and scaledSalt and white pepper30ml-45ml (2-3 tbsp) cornflourOil for deep-frying8 dried shiitake mushrooms, soaked in boiling water for 20 minutes3 spring onions, thinly sliced, lengthways10ml (2 tsp) fish sauce30ml (2 tbsp) soy sauce60ml (4 tbsp) brown sugar3cm piece of ginger, peeled and julienned, or shavings of carrot made with a vegetable peeler60ml (4 tbsp) rice vinegar200ml waterSqueeze of lime juiceFresh coriander to garnishMethod:1. Using a sharp knife, make several diagonal slashes across the fish. Season with salt and white pepper and sprinkle with 30ml (2 tbsp) cornflour.2. Preheat enough oil to deep-fry fish in a wok or deep frying pan. When oil is almost smoking, slide the fish into the pan and fry for 2-3 minutes per side. Remove fish, drain on paper towel and cover with foil.3. Drain the mushrooms, cut off the stems and slice the caps finely. Heat 20ml oil in a pan and saut mushrooms and spring onions till soft, then add fish sauce, soy sauce, sugar, ginger, carrot and vinegar and bring to the boil. Blend remaining cornflour with water, add to the mushroom mixture and stir over medium heat till thickening. Add lime juice and mix through.4. Place fish on platter and spoon sauce over it. Garnish with coriander and serve. AT-HOME PEKING DUCKThe beauty of this recipe from New Basics Cookbook by Rosso &amp; Lukins is that it may sound difficult but is really very easy and worth it for a special date. The duck requires 2 days of preparation time. The recipe serves 2-4.For the duck:1 duck60ml (4 tbsp) dry sherrySalt45ml (3 tbsp) runny honey250ml (1 cup) water15ml (1 tbsp) ground ginger15ml (1 tbsp) freshly ground black pepper45ml (3 tbsp) soy sauce15ml (1 tbsp) sesame oilTo serve:Spring onion pancakes (recipe below)4 spring onions, cut julienne style1 English cucumber, peeled, seeded and cut julienne style250ml (1 cup) hoisin or plum sauceMethod:1. Early in the morning of the day before you plan to serve it, rinse the duck well and remove excess fat. Place it in a colander. Pour boiling water over it until the skin turns white. Pat the duck dry, then rub inside and out with sherry and salt. Place breast side down on a wire rack and refrigerate uncovered. After 10-12 hours, turn the duck breast side up, brush with 15ml (1 tbsp) honey, and refrigerate overnight.2. When ready to cook the duck, preheat the oven to 180 C. Place the bird breast-side-up on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. Pour water into the pan, cover loosely with foil and roast for an hour.3. Remove the duck from the pan and pour off the fat (save it for roast potatoes). Prick duck all over with a fork. Combine the ginger, pepper, 15ml soy sauce and sesame oil in a small bowl. Mix well and use it to coat the duck thoroughly. Return the duck to the pan and roast uncovered for 30 minutes.4. Remove from oven and raise temperature to 250 C. Combine the remaining honey with 30ml soy sauce and coat the duck with this mixture. Roast until crisp and golden, about an hour. Remove from the oven and cool slightly. Carve into 3-4mm slices (traditionally this is done at the table).5. Arrange the slices on a large heated platter with pancakes, spring onions and cucumber. Each person assembles their own: spread the pancake with hoisin sauce, top with a slice or two of duck, sprinkle with spring onion and cucumber and roll. Great finger food. SPRING ONION PANCAKESMakes 10-12 pancakesIngredients:120g (1 cup) flour185ml ( cup) water185ml ( cup) milk3 eggsPinch of salt30ml (2 tbsp) butter, melted2 spring onions, thinly sliced lengthwise then cut diagonally into cm pieces.Method:1. Combine the flour, water and milk in a food processor. Process for 15 seconds. With the motor running, add eggs, salt and butter and process until well blended. Pour into a bowl, cover and leave for an hour in the fridge.2. Fold in spring onions. Heat a non-stick frying pan and swirl with 15ml oil and a knob of butter. Pour off excess, saving for next pancake. Add 45ml (3 tbsp) batter and tilt pan to spread evenly. Cook pancake until underside is golden brown, flip, and cook for another minute or two.3. Repeat with remaining batter, adding oil to pan in-between. Stack pancakes between pieces of greaseproof paper and cover with foil to keep warm.