MUSHROOM &amp; CR ME FRA CHE FREE-FORM TARTServes 4Inspired by Marion Cottilard (pictured below), who's for best actress for Two Days, One Night. This French actress believes in eating as naturally and organically as possible. "I think my desire to protect the environment comes from my family, especially my grandmother," she told Interview magazine. "When she cooked, she wouldn't waste anything."Ingredients:45ml (3 tbsp) olive oil15ml (1 tbsp) butter400g mixed fresh mushrooms6 spring onions, roughly chopped1 clove garlic, finely choppedSea salt, to taste1 x 400g roll ready-made puff pastry45ml (3 tbsp) cr me fra cheFreshly ground black pepper, to tasteMethod:1) Preheat the oven to 200 C.2) Heat the oil and butter in a pan and saut the mushrooms until just softening. Add the spring onions and garlic and fry just until spring onions wilt. Add salt to taste.3) Lightly roll out the pastry and lay on a greased baking sheet. Spoon the mushroom filling into the centre of the pastry and loosely fold over the sides. Bake for about 15-20 minutes or until pastry is golden and cooked. Serve topped with dollops of cr me fra che and a grinding of black pepper.ROASTED CHICKEN WITH BROWN TARRAGON SAUCEServes 6Inspired by Meryl Streep (pictured below) who's nominated for best supporting actress for Into the Woods. Streep's favourite roast chicken is a simpler version of Julia Child's recipe, which Streep learnt to make while playing Child in the 2009 film Julie and Julia.For the chicken:1.5kg free-range chickenSalt and pepper60ml (4 tbsp) butter, plus extra as needed8 sprigs fresh tarragon or 5ml (1 tsp) dried tarragon30ml (2 tbsp) oil1 large onion, sliced1 carrot, slicedFor the brown tarragon sauce:500ml (2 cups) chicken stock OR 250ml (1cup) beef stock and 250ml (1 cup) chicken stock15ml (1 tbsp) cornflour30ml (2 tbsp) port30ml (2 tbsp) finely chopped fresh tarragon or parsley15ml (1 tbsp) butterMethod:1) Season the chicken inside and out with salt and pepper and rub all over (including inside) with half the butter. Place half the tarragon sprigs in the cavity (if using fresh) or sprinkle over half the dried tarragon. Tie chicken legs together with string.2) Heat the remaining butter with the oil in a casserole dish on the stove. Place chicken in dish, breast-side down, and brown for 2-3 minutes. Turn chicken carefully without breaking the skin and brown for a few minutes on the other side. Continue browning and turning until chicken is golden all over. This will take about 15 minutes. Remove the chicken carefully and set aside.3) Pour out the browning fat if it has burnt, heat 30ml (2 tbsp) fresh butter in the dish and add the onions and carrots. Cook slowly for 5 minutes without browning. Add the remaining tarragon and season with a large pinch of salt.4) Preheat the oven to 180 C. Place the chicken breast-side-up on the softened vegetables and baste with the melted butter in the casserole dish. Cover with foil and cook on moderate heat until chicken begins to sizzle, then transfer to the oven and roast for about 1 hour, basting once or twice. The chicken is done when its drumsticks move in their sockets, and when the juices run clear. Transfer chicken to a serving platter to rest.5) Meanwhile make the sauce: Add the stock to the casserole dish containing the chicken cooking juices and vegetables. Simmer for 2 minutes, scraping any bits from the bottom. Skim off all fat and strain, returning the liquid to the pot. Blend the cornflour with the port and whisk into the sauce, boiling until it thickens. Stir in the tarragon or parsley and butter, and serve with the chicken and trimmings of your choice.POTATO PARSLEY CAKES WITH FRIED FENNEL, OLIVES AND FETAServes 2-4Inspired by Bradley Cooper (pictured below). Nominated for best actor for American Sniper, Cooper comes from a half-Italian family and loves to cook. His speciality is taking whatever is left in the fridge and turning it into a delicious meal.For the potato cakes:250ml (1 cup) leftover mashed potato45ml (3 tbsp) self-raising flour, plus extra for dusting1 large egg2.5ml ( tsp) salt60ml (4 tbsp) finely chopped fresh parsleyOil, for fryingFor the topping:30ml (2 tbsp) olive oil1 large fennel bulb plus fronds, chopped1 garlic clove, finely sliced125ml ( cup) calamata olives125ml ( cup) crumbled feta cheeseSalt, to tasteMethod:1) Place all the ingredients for the potato cakes (except the oil) in a bowl and mix well to form a dough. Shape into patties and dust with the extra flour.2) Heat oil in a pan and fry the potato cakes on low heat until browned on both sides. Set aside to keep warm.3) For the topping, heat oil in a fresh pan and fry the fennel on low heat until it begins to caramelise. Add the garlic and olives and fry for a minute more. Season with salt to taste.4) Pile the topping onto the warm potato cakes, top with crumbled feta and serve. CRAB CAKESServes 8 as a starterInspired by Robert Duvall (pictured below) who's nominated for best supporting actor in The Judge. This is his mother's recipe for crab cakes: he grew up in Annapolis, Maryland, where crab is required eating. When he bought a restaurant in Virginia, he gave the recipe to the chef.Ingredients:60ml (4 tbsp) mayonnaise1 small onion, minced2 large eggs, lightly beaten2.5ml ( tsp) Worcestershire sauce2.5ml ( tsp) mustard powderPinch of saltPinch of cayenne pepper500g fresh crab meat, shredded (or use 3 x 170g cans of crabmeat, well drained)250ml (1 cup) fresh cream cracker crumbs30ml (2 tbsp) unsalted butter60ml (4 tbsp) vegetable oilLemon wedges, to serveMethod:1) In a large bowl, combine the mayonnaise, onion, eggs, Worcestershire sauce, mustard powder, salt and cayenne pepper. Fold in the crabmeat and 60ml (4 tbsp) of the cracker crumbs. Mix well and shape into 16 cakes about 2.5cm thick.2) Roll gently in the remaining cracker crumbs to coat well, then place on a baking sheet lined with greaseproof paper. (You can, if you wish, prepare the cakes to this stage and then refrigerate them overnight to fry the next day.)3) In a large frying pan heat half the butter with half the oil. Cook half the crab cakes over moderate heat until golden and crisp, about 2-3 minutes per side. Remove and drain on paper towel. Repeat for the remaining butter, oil and crab cakes. Serve with lemon wedges.CORNBREADServes 4-6Inspired by Julianne Moore (pictured below) who's nominated for best actress for Still Alice. Moore told Gourmet.com that everyone loves her cornbread. "It has quite a bit of sugar and butter in it. I honestly feel like everything is better with a little butter." Serve this variation with as much butter as you like.Ingredients:750ml (3 cups) fresh mielie kernels, cut off the cob2 large free-range eggs20ml (4 tsp) cake or bread flour10ml (2 tsp) baking powder15ml (1 tbsp) butter5ml (1 tsp) sugar2.5ml ( tsp) saltMethod:1) Preheat the oven to 160 C.2) Pulse the mielie kernels in a food processor until fine but not pulpy. Mix with all the other ingredients until you have a dough.3) Tip dough into a bowl lined with 2 large squares of baking paper. Gather the paper around the dough to form a parcel, leaving room for expansion, and tie with string. Place on a baking tray and bake for about 1 hour.4) Remove from oven and leave to rest for 10 minutes, then cut into thick slices and serve immediately with butter or a stew.