Reader Mary Boyd politely pointed me to the Chambers dictionary, which comes from Edinburgh, as does she, and which defines couth (a back formation from uncouth) as "good-mannered". In my lady's Chambers is also an entry for the endearing Scottish word "couthie", meaning "friendly".In my youth I had a Scottish friend who went by the name of Jim Gibson. What a silly expression that is. He did not merely go by the name and carry on walking. He stopped, picked it up and kept it. Or perhaps it stuck to him as he went by, like a burr.The Pedant Class: Home truthsApart from his name, you wouldn't have guessed that Jim was a Scot, because most of the time he spoke in an accent perfectly comprehensible to South Africans. If you happened to be in the room when he was talking to his mother, however, you'd think every night was Burns night, because Jim's voice was suddenly painted blue and wearing a kilt.Kilt, incidentally, comes from the Old Norse kjalta, meaning "pleated" or "tucked up", whence cometh also quilt. We had to wear kilts at my primary school, which was founded by a visiting Scot. They were held together by giant pins which we could have used as weapons in the campaign against impractical school uniforms, but we were couth and canny little girls, saving our youth to misspend later.Despite his sinister tendency to slip into cloaked vowels and burred consonants when one least expected it, my friend Jim was also a couth youth. I don't think he was related to Mel - I didn't think to ask, because we weren't allowed to watch Mad Max - but of course we are all related in some way. You don't even have to go back to mitochondrial Eve to find a connection, as those who play the Kevin Bacon game know.If you aren't familiar with it, the game is based on the "six degrees of separation" concept. It involves finding a connection between the actor Kevin Bacon (who somehow managed to resist the temptation to call his children Streaky, Shoulder and Rindless) and any other person named in the challenge. For example: Bacon and Luke Skywalker? Easy: The actor Mark Hamill is Bacon's fifth cousin.</img> Image: Illustration: Piet Grobler Image: Illustration: Piet Grobler Bacon and Harry Potter's owl Hedwig? Less easy, but possible: Kevin is called Bacon and owls eat bacon (although they prefer hedgehogs when they can find them). Or: Kevin starred in Murder in the First with Gary Oldman, who was also in the film Hannibal, which sounds like cannibal, and owls have been known to eat other owls when they can find neither hedgehogs nor bacon. Or: Kevin has watched football at the Super Bowl; Hedwig is a Superb Owl.The game has fallen out of fashion and hardly anyone talks about Kevin anymore, but in its day it was a useful device to prove that most people are connected. The same is true for words. Most words in European languages have their roots in Proto-Indo-European (PIE), which the Online Etymology Dictionary defines as: "the hypothetical reconstructed ancestral language of the Indo-European family". In other words, words that existed long before Latin and Greek began throwing their weight around.PIE (as opposed to pie, which can contain bacon or blackbirds) provides us with the root u(wa)l, which is not so much a word as the sound of an owl's hoot. From this came the Proto-Germanic uwwalon, the Old High German uwila, the German Eule, Old Norse ugla, Latin ulula, Old English ule, and finally (you guessed where this was going, didn't you?) the wise old owl. Who said kilts and owls had nothing in common?E-mail your observations on language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follower her on Twitter @deGrootS1.