Life has trained us to be anxious when the phone rings at 3am. Such calls usually announce an interruption of the orderly functioning of life, an accident or some bewildering bad news.The morning my partner's grandmother died began with such a call. We'd been at her deathbed the day before to say goodbye, and then we'd driven from the Vredehoek old-age home to the comforting crassness of Camps Bay.The fact of death, even as a neat report over the telephone, upsets us. In this age of HBO television series and movies about the undead, we're used to death being something to be battled and fought tooth and nail. When someone dies on television, it looks courageous, and it encapsulates all our feelings about survival and the human condition. Real death isn't quite like that. Real death is filled with all sorts of quotidian banalities, like who will water the pot plants and who will empty the dishwasher. Funerals are wasted on the deadHistorically, death has always held us in thrall. The first major Occidental philosophical text is about the death of Socrates, and various art forms thereafter have sought to understand our helplessness before the inexorable. And every generation has its cluster of epochal deaths: my generation will go down as the people for whom "where were you when Mandela died?" is the ringing question.Death fills our lives with anxiety. Of course, the media feeds our worry. Our daily intake involves routine morsels of disaster - plane crashes, diseases, murders. We don't realise that what we're fed is actually anomalous, because the constantly refreshing news cycle artificially surrounds us with our mortality. And each disaster is assigned to the catalogue of forgotten tragedies as soon as the news cycle refreshes.The exception seems to be when celebrities die. Since 2015 began, a famous author, a well-loved television celebrity and a respected government minister have all died in South Africa alone. When famous people die, it shakes our belief that celebrities are somehow immortal. So when we hear that Angelina Jolie is undergoing drastic cancer-prevention treatment, our fascination is fed by the uncanny realisation that celebrities are ordinary people, with the same vulnerabilities we have. Insurance adverts seem to feed off our anxiety that we will be exposed in death as having been unprepared in life It pays to notice how many of the products we consume stoke this realisation and profit from it. The allure of longevity has seized society, and what with constantly being told that everything causes cancer and everything else is a miracle food, it's easy to give in to the idea of self-preservation constantly being sold to us.So when you're watching telemarketing for pants that will sweat you skinny, you're actually being told not to get fat and die. That Patek Philippe advert that made you check your overdraft, your Banting diet and your sporty hatchback are all marketed on the basis of our need to keep death as far away as possible. We're scared of dying, and we keep that fear at bay by buying and consuming things we hope will give us more life.It's why those incessant life insurance adverts rankle so much. What seems so unseemly about death is how unremarkably the world carries on. There are bills to be paid and relatives to be fed, and insurance adverts seem to feed off our anxiety that we will be exposed in death as having been unprepared in life.What is important, they say, is not the grief felt for a loved one who has suddenly been taken away, but that those who survive should not be financially inconvenienced by death. "Sign up to 10 family members on one plan!" the ads shout, and something compels you to do so. These ads, with their earnest testimonies and their glib presenters, are offering us a paltry sort of continuation, the chance to ensure that we are remembered after we go.No room for burial rituals when cemeteries are short on spaceUltimately, death is about the balance between remembering and carrying on. In the week that followed Ouma Augusta's passing, each family member was assigned some role in the quiet drama of grief and closure. At the front of the stage are the tears and the grieving relatives sharing stories and beetroot salad. In the background lies the furniture - documents to be signed and certified by the state, the life to be packed away or redistributed. These are tasks requiring an efficiency that seems too brusque for our feelings.Ouma Augusta was, in earlier life, a translator and editor. We sorted through a vast library of dertigers and sestigers and other writers from times past. This is perhaps the great shock: how simple objects become the visible fact of their owner's existence. The books brought surprises: who knew that Andr Brink wrote comprehensive histories of wine and brandy in South Africa? Or that a young Pieter Dirk Uys looks like he could be a drummer for Fokofpolisiekar? One of the shelves was a lexicon of writers nowadays only revived at Afrikaans literary festivals: Boerneef, MER, Totius, Petronella van Heerden, and someone whose brother was more famous than he was.There are dusty photos too, of people and places unknown or dimly remembered. One photo of the woman I have only known in old age shows her younger self in voguish dress. I see in her pose the dancer's boldness I love in my partner.A business card belonging to my partner's grandfather tumbles crisply from the pages of a novel. It suggests a reading temporarily paused, captured in permanence now. We place it carefully back between the pages it has kept for 40 years. Sadness billows from small discoveries like these.Death's meaning lies finally in the lessons we take from it. As the world insistently reclarifies itself, the notion that our various corporeal comforts could be dismantled overnight disappears. What remains, however briefly, is the realisation that there is much we take for granted, and that there are better ways we might live.