That is how good he was in Cardiff. His innings altered the course of the day, ensuring that Alastair Cook's wholly logical decision to bat first was not made to look extremely foolish.It was an innings that manifested England's talk of attacking cricket as reality, not bluster. It also reaffirmed that Root will become one of England's truly great batsmen.It may have been only his seventh test century and his second against Australia, but of much greater relevance is that, since he was dropped for the final test of the calamitous Ashes series Down Under in 2013/14, the 24-year-old has scored five of those centuries at an astonishing average of 85.41.Yes, he needed luck in Cardiff. Indeed, the good lady was clinging to him when he somehow survived his first two balls.Arriving at the desperation of 43/3 with the ball still swinging lavishly in the air - unusually so in Cardiff - there was a huge leg-before-wicket (lbw) shout from his first ball that was only silenced when it became obvious that Root had saved himself with an inside edge.Mitchell Starc, the tall left-armer, decided to push the next ball across Root from a very full length. Root prodded hopefully at it. The deflection came and wicketkeeper Brad Haddin went sprawling to his right. He went with one hand and appeared to go too far so that the ball almost hit him on the wrist. Rabada puts paid to all that nonsense about BangladeshBecause the ball had been so full and Root had jammed down on it, there was some confusion about whether it had actually been a catch.It certainly had. It was not a bump ball. Root's bat had hit the ground and, as it had done so, the ball had taken the edge.England were in trouble but from Starc's next over, Root altered the tone in emphatic fashion. He got off the mark with a lovely off-drive for four, then followed it three balls later with a punch off the back foot for another four. With the next ball Root drove again through the off-side, this time just for three.Suddenly the game looked very different, and Root looked very different from the batsman who, earlier in his career, had been so easily stifled by bowlers pitching the ball up to him.He had responded to adversity with positivity. It was to be the theme of his innings, and indeed much of England's.His attitude, technique and fortitude were a joy.Root is generally regarded as a back-foot player, standing with bat aloft but here it was his cover-driving off the front foot that caught the eye most.With Gary Ballance, they put on 153, but Ballance fell plumb lbw with Root on 97. Fast bowler Josh Hazlewood duly served up a wide half-volley and Root caressed it to the cover boundary. He had made his century in just 118 balls. It had been a superb innings. Root fell for 134, caught at first slip driving at Starc.Hazlewood's reaction was telling. He just shook his head. He might have dismissed Root, but he had not defeated him. - The Daily Telegraph, London