"Pay back the money or we'll isolate you" seems to be most of Europe's message to the Greeks. "Isolation" was invented by the French, so that at least is a safe word, as is "quarantine" (Latin), but if sanctions were imposed on words of Greek origin, how would we express ourselves?Commentators on the Greek economic crisis would be struck dumb. They would have to write without using the words "economy", "crisis", and "panic", all of which have their roots in ancient Greece. (Not only that, reporters would also be unable to refer to the, uh, bad thing as a "drama" or a "tragedy", as so few have been able to resist doing.)The Greek krisis originally meant the height of a fever, after which things were set to improve. "Economy" comes from the Greek oikonomia, meaning "thrift" or "household management". (Irony is also Greek, in case you were wondering.)</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerAs for "panic", it pertains to the god Pan, who, according to the Online Etymology Dictionary, would lurk in the woods and make "mysterious sounds that caused contagious, groundless fear".Most words beginning with "pan" are Greek and would hence have to be tossed on the fire. Some would not be missed: you can keep your pandemics and pantomimes, but it would be a sad world that offered no panacea, and how would a person survive without a pancreas?If we banned Greek words, sports writers would have to come up with new names for heroes, athletes and marathons. Say goodbye to the Olympics. Smash those busts of Plato and Aristotle. Tear down statues of people called Rhodes - they might remind us of Greek islands.There would be some benefit to this ethnic language cleansing (although "ethnic" would have to go). We could finally stop arguing about the plural of "stadium", and the irritating singular use of "criteria" would cease. I'd throw a party the day "iconic" stopped clinging like a festering scab to every fried-chicken drumstick.Picking through English to remove all words tainted by their association with Greece is no easy task. We can't call it "problematic" because "problem" - naturally - comes from Greek. Problems would be driven out of town in Alpha cars (and we would have no time for Omega watches). Thankfully we would still have difficulties, which were passed down to us by the Romans.Now that we have GPS, who needs an atlas? We could get by without mentors, cereal, echoes, hypnosis, kleptomania and television. There would be no therapy, but without narcissists there would be less need for it. The Pedant Class: Everyone s favourite slime ballMost of us would be delighted to see the back of xenophobia, and we would muddle along somehow without hagiographies, biographies, thespians, ballistics and platonic relationships. Some say democracy is an outdated term due for replacement. Few, however, would vote to get rid of olives, comedy and music.I would miss iconoclasts and panthers - not to mention leopards, lions and tigers. We would have to come up with non-Greek names for these creatures, or remake The Jungle Book without Bagheera and Shere Khan.Here's an idea. No, sorry, ideas are Greek. Here's a suggestion. Instead of cutting off all contact with Greece, let us allow those who wish to use words of Greek origin to rent them by the hour.If English speakers paid a euro (or a drachma) into the Greek bail-out fund every time they said "energy", "phone" or "thermodynamics", Greece would be as rich as Croesus in a week. Croesus, by the way, made his money taxing the Greeks.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1