The morning looked normal - the whole of Athens spread out below my house in the old neighbourhood of Anafiotika. My domestic arrangements were ascetic, a narrow bed and a table, no chairs, and three green plates.But that morning when I tried to open the door - to go to the toilet down some steep steps - there was a man wearing a uniform that suggested some sort of urgent message (parents dead, nuclear disaster?). He was a soldier carrying a gun. The neighbour opposite, named Agamemnon, stood at his open door with his cat curled up in a large birdcage."Putsch," said the man. I knew the word but what did he mean? I had been in Greece three weeks and had already had the old joke played on me. The word in Greek for bread is psoli , I was told when going to the baker. In fact it is psomi; psoli means penis. And now I was confronted with "putsch". It was April 21 1967 and "the Colonels" had taken over.It was my year of cigarettes, sex and Under the Volcano by Malcolm Lowry; I knew nothing of Greek politics. But during that night while I slept in my house backed up against the Acropolis, the Colonels had seized power.By the morning Greece was no longer a left-wing democracy but a fascist dictatorship. After that, although God knows I would never have admitted it, Greece seemed to prosper.But my province was always the underclass, the Monastiraki boys who danced the hasapiko at night in a place called Psomeles; the crazy nights of bouzouki. We saved for months to hear an old woman in a tweed suit called Soteria Belou sing. For a brief, drunken period I became a dancer with a group of blonde "xeni" foreign girls. How to revitalise an economy with ouzoOn the news this month when I saw the former finance minister Yanis Varoufakis driving off on his motorbike, behind him was someone who could have been me all those years ago.Greeks have a hot-blooded approach to politics, and I quickly learnt a sort of taxi-driver's guide to survival. The urgent and predictable volubility of their discourse, beginning with "How the situation?" and ending with "Have you got sister?"It took a long time to decipher the word "colonel", which tied up the Greek tongue in an atonal catastrophe. I was later to find out how fierce the Colonels could be when, one by one, my friends were shipped off to an island, never to be heard of again.I became a coffee-shop communist passionately involved in opposition to the regime. I blush now when I think how little I knew of Greek politics, but communism has always been tied up with the arts in Greece. I felt for the composer Mikis Theodorakis and all the other poor idealists who were shoved off to an island or shot at dawn.From the start the Greek language thrilled me; seditious talk in Greek with its menacing consonants was theatrical. I ended up living with a man called Kleanthis who silenced my denouncement of the Colonels, until one night we were raided and a panel was removed from behind my clothes in a cupboard to reveal stacks of dollars and guns. I had unknowingly been living with one of the leaders of the underground, a real communist. Try talking your way out of that one. Greece, the Minotaur and a fable for our timesThere is always a problem with Greece. Confronted with a souvlakia joint or a filthy toilet, I was jolted by the idea that I was in the city of Pericles, home of democracy, nursery of philosophy, cradle of culture, et cetera. The gods loomed everywhere. It is this history that reassembles every thought in Athens and helps one to forgive the modern ugliness of the city.In Greek history the pendulum of bloodshed, entangled with years of occupation, is often kept in motion by a thirst for revenge as much as any political impulse.After the Colonels fell people marched in their thousands, rejoicing, but it wasn't long before the megaphones were brought out again as the Greeks marched against the man, Konstantinos Karamanlis, who had been their saviour.I have often wondered if history aspires to the symmetry of myth; in Greece this is certainly true. The referendum this month had that same sense of ancient panic, a Dionysian fantasy of better tomorrows and a hubris that can only become unbuttoned. Is there a Greek god of the future? If there is, Alexis Tsipras should be lighting a candle to it right now.