In other words, no one quite understands what goes on, least of all the columnist. This is why the average columnist (this one included) ducks and dives more than an Italian football striker inside the box when asked, "How do you come up with ideas for your column?"The most honest answer I've ever been able to conjure up is, "I have no flippin' idea." This is because sometimes you're minding your own business when you see a woman wearing a leather jacket which makes you think about the unsuspecting bovines you saw while driving to the Vaal Dam the previous weekend. Thoughts of the Vaal remind you of the beetroot-faced fellow who was fishing while imbibing copious amounts of Klipdrift brandy, and by the time you're writing a column about Klippies-imbibing okes on the banks of the Vaal Dam, no one would guess it was inspired by a woman standing at the corner of Oxford and Rivonia in a skimpy red leather jacket.And this is my long-winded, roundabout way of letting you know that this is how it came to pass that I wrote about the k-word in last week's column. What happened is that the previous Sunday morning I went to the corner greengrocer to buy the things one buys the morning after Saturday evening.Two ladies of advanced age exited the store in animated conversation and entered a 1980s Nissan Sentra as I went in. When I came out they were seated inside the car taking voluminous gulps of amasi (maas) directly from an Inkomazi 2-litreplastic bottle. My first thought was, "Two elderly tannies enjoying amasi directly from a bottle? Now that's not a sight one witnesses every day."It is at that point that my brain took a detour to the story of the amasi peddler and k-word enthusiast that I wrote about last week.But today is another day. I have had several queries from some readers about amasi, which is why I intend to finish my thoughts on the matter. Again, and for the benefit of any Australian reading this, amasi is carefully fermented milk that is one of our South African staples. (Yes, sour milk is not unique to South Africa.) And boy, does this columnist know about the "stapleness" of this particular staple! Common knowledge is commonly wrongYou see, I believe that from age three until age 11 I never had anything for lunch but amasi. And in most KwaZulu-Natal households, amasi is prepared in two ways: with phuthu or with bread. Uphuthu is a maize meal dish that's cooked until it's fluffy and light. You simply pour the amasi over the phuthu, mix everything up and voil ! In less-civilised parts of the country they actually use pap, with all that stodginess. And in KZN we have very strong feelings about the savagery of this practice. When one doesn't have the time to cook either phuthu or pap, an acceptable replacement is bread that's crudely crumbed using one's hands. Yeuch!Throughout my junior school years my mom would insist that after school my elder brother and I go to Gogo Ngubane's house to have lunch. And every day Gogo Ngubane would have amasi with crumbled bread ready for us. She would sit there with piles of reed, weaving hand baskets while watching us like a hawk, intermittently going, "Swallow everything." And I'd shove a spoonful into my mouth, suck all the amasi out of the bread and sit there with a lump of bread bulging in my cheeks until Gogo Ngubane hissed at me, "Swallow!" Rinse. Repeat process.But perhaps I enjoyed amasi the most at Inkamana High because someone with an IQ of about 200, no doubt, discovered that if you added strawberry-flavoured Nesquik powder, you experienced untold organoleptic orgasms.There was a fellow we called Bala'c, after the 1980s Kaizer Chiefs goalie Peta Bala'c, who loved amasi so much a rumour was doing the rounds that his bathroom deposits were white. By the time I left high school I was so amasi'd out I have never once put the stuff in my mouth in the past 25 years or so.Deep-fried amasi chickenIf you're reading this and you're getting curious about amasi, I don't blame you. It's probably worth trying, although I'd strongly suggest making friends with a KZNer to sort you out with phuthu. If you need extra encouragement, I guess I should tell you that amasi has a reputation as an excellent hangover cure. Apparently, one bowl and you can actually see that babalas seep out of your pores. And if none of that impresses you, consider this. Amasi is also famous for increasing a man's sperm count.In fact, I have it on good authority that a young woman from the land of the Thonga was introduced into King Jama kaNdaba's (King Shaka's grandfather's) royal kraal. The old man Jama was apparently quite besotted with her and took her as a junior wife, leading to whispered murmurs seeing as she was already visibly pregnant. When the bolder members of the royal kraal confronted him about this, the old man simply shook his head knowingly and said, "I know, but I will fortify the unborn child with my own seed." The loose translation of fortification is "jiyisa" and the son was named Sojiyisa upon birth. This is not verified but I've heard that the king had been consuming copious amounts of amasi during this "fortification" process. E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo