What he said during an interview with comedian Marc Maron was, "Racism, we are not cured of it. And it's not just a matter of it not being polite to say 'nigger' in public. That's not the measure of whether racism still exists or not." (Yes, I just typed the actual word).The question then is, was Obama within his rights to utter the word? What about me? Was I offside a few lines back? Can anybody use the word? If "yes", when is it acceptable to use it?Here is my brilliant, incisive and carefully considered response: well, it's a bit complicated.Here in South Africa, our equivalent of the N-word is the K-word. For the benefit of our international readers, the full word is "kaffir"; a racial slur used to abuse black South Africans. (Oops, I did it again, like Britney.) As late-night talkshow callers love to explain, the original, Arabic meaning of the word is (put simplistically) "non-believer".Of course, I doubt that any K-word enthusiast has used the word in that context in the past 350 years. That's like calling someone a tart and claiming you meant it in the confectionery sense. My answer to the question, "So who can use the K-word?" is the same as above: it's a bit complicated. A simpler question to answer is who cannot use the word.The joke's on racism: South Africans are more likely to laugh at themselvesLet me give you an example. In my second book, Is It Coz I'm black?, published in 2009, I share a story about a farmer who used to drive to my Unit1 North Mpumalanga Township in Hammarsdale peddling the fermented milk delicacy called amasi (or maas to the culturally challenged) from a bakkie, in the mid-to-late '70s. His wife would stand at the back of the bakkie with a loudhailer, alerting residents with the loud refrain, "Makhafula nank' amasi!" (K*****s, amasi are here!)Oh, how I wish I was making this up. The fascinating bit about this is that back then the word was used so frequently that I don't remember anyone ever complaining about this or toyi-toying, Molotov cocktails in hand. People would quietly mumble something along the lines of, "But does she have to call us that?" while fishing out coins and buying their amasi. Now, that farmer's wife is a clear-cut case of someone who wasn't allowed to use the word.And then there was my maternal gran, Margaret. She used the word a lot around the house - at least the Zulufied version, makhafula. "Makhafula, come to the house, I've baked some scones!" and we'd run into the kitchen to stuff our faces without any sense of being insulted. And when my gran passed away, one of the heirlooms I assume my mom inherited from her must have been the unrestricted use of the word in the same "affectionate" sense my gran had used it.That's correct, the K-word baton was passed on from generation to generation in my household. Only when I was much older did I begin interrogating why people feel the need to use painful racial slurs on each other. For instance, my former boss while I was a presenter on East Coast Radio was the current Jacaranda FM programming manager, Naveen Singh. He used to refer to "charous" in informal conversation from time to time. Always said with a mischievous glint, as if daring me to follow suit. I knew better than to take the bait.Many African Americans use the N-word to address each other affectionately. Even marquee actor Denzel Washington has come under fire for his apparent gratuitous use of the word throughout the movies Training Day and American Gangster.The best explanation I've heard for why people use these words comes, surprisingly, from the world of rap; most notably from Tupac Shakur, who explained that avoiding the word gives it, and those who use it maliciously, undue power. By using it among each other, they were taking away its power the same way taking bullets out of a gun renders it useless.Shakur used the analogy of how vaccines are viruses whose potency has been neutralised for the greater good. Using it to address each other "affectionately" was a vaccination of sorts, I guess.Last Saturday, Mrs N and I had dinner with friends Kanthan Pillay and Sarah Britten. While regaling us with a delightful story about the town of Clarens where they got married, and a "fallen dominee", I interjected with the observation, "Your story would be indistinguishable from a Herman Charles Bosman short story if it involved a lazy k****r."This was, of course, a reference to the fact that Bosman's stories are peppered with the K-word. When I used the word with Kanthan and Sarah, I was wearing the same mischievous glint worn by Naveen when using the C-word. To their credit, they didn't take the bait either, or there might have been a violent "misunderstanding". Sanctimony interruptus: When righteous indignation goes wrongOK, let me tell you what I mean by "it's complicated". If you're not a member of the demographic group against whom a racial slur is used, you cannot use it. The only exception is when you're using it in an academic paper or if you're a columnist/author writing about racial slurs. (See what I did there?) And if you're a non-black member of a movie crew it's probably best to never refer on set to the gaffer, to avoid misunderstandings.But even if you're black and the chairman of Orlando Pirates, it's probably a terrible idea to use the K-word in a derogatory sense to refer to journalists. And if you're a popular white breakfast radio presenter who is a closet K-word enthusiast, don't loan shady black colleagues cash because the word might accidentally slip out in the heat of an argument.And to the lady who turned seven shades of purple when I gave her an exaggerated look of fake outrage when she grabbed a packet of kaffir lime leaves off the shelf at the Carls-wald Spar some months ago, calm down. I was just yanking your chain.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo