Chef Mario Camparada has been making authentic handmade pizza for 28 years at his restaurant, Trattoria Renato Pizzeria, in Emmarentia, Johannesburg, which he opened with a partner in 1987 and now owns with Giovanni Moschetta. He grew up in the family trattoria in Monza just outside Milan."To be successful in a restaurant the most important thing is that you like your job and have a passion for making good food. Money comes later," he said. As he deftly threw pizza dough into the air, he explained how his parents used to tie his right hand behind his back so he could learn how to work the dough with his left hand. A craftsman indeed. He graciously shared his recipe: STEP 1: MAKE THE DOUGHAlways make the dough the day before and only use block yeast, not instant yeast. Here's how: Place 1kg flour (a combination of cake and white bread flour) in a large plastic bowl with 20g salt. Add 600ml warm water, milk or beer in which 20g yeast has been dissolved. Mix to combine. Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead for 5 minutes. Place in a large plastic bowl, brush with olive oil, cover with plastic wrap and a tea towel and leave in a warm place for 3 hours. Knock back the dough and return to the basin. Brush the top of the dough with olive oil, cover with clingfilm and place in the refrigerator overnight. STEP 2: ROLL OUT THE BASEDivide the dough into balls of about 180g each and press the ball flat with your fingers - dip them lightly into flour every so often.Flatten out the dough into a round shape using a rolling pin. While doing this, Camparada would use his left hand to twirl the dough in the air. This was repeated four times. STEP 3: PUT ON THE TOPPINGSCamparada made a regina pizza. He spread a tablespoon of passata on the base, leaving a gap of 3-4cm around the rim. "In Naples they don't eat ingredients, they eat the dough."Top the passata with a handful of grated mozzarella cheese, a handful of sliced mushrooms and a sprinkling of chopped ham. Sprinkle lightly with a pinch of dried oreganum and salt. STEP 4: BAKE YOUR PIZZAThe pizza was baked in a wood-fired oven (about 350 C) and it was cooked in minutes. "It all depends on the heat of the oven how long it will take to cook," said Camparada. "You will see by the colour underneath," he said, lifting the base of the freshly cooked pizza to show the patches of brown on the base.At home, preheat the oven to 220 C. Heat a pizza stone (if you have one, or use a metal baking tray) in the oven for 5 minutes. Place the pizza on the hot stone or baking tray and bake for about 10 minutes. Serve immediately.Trattoria Renato Pizzeria, 39 Greenhill Road, Emmarentia, Johannesburg. Call 011-646-9203.