Camellias are, quite simply, showstoppers. From delicate singles to opulent, saucer-sized doubles, the variety is as overwhelming as the flowers themselves. Add to that the extravagance of the display: a mature plant will bear hundreds of flowers that glow among the dark leaves and carpet the ground with colour.Out of bloom, camellias are still among the handsomest shrubs around, with a graceful luxuriance that makes them a valuable presence all year. In small gardens they shine as specimens, screen plants or as pot subjects.In large gardens they can be planted under trees or through woodland, which is their natural habitat. Bush craft: Hardy shrubs you can leave aloneGOOD TO KNOW A few key species, including Camellia japonica, Camellia reticulata, autumn-flowering Camellia sasanqua and Camellia saluenensis, are the parents of thousands of beautiful hybrids and cultivars. There are six basic flower forms: single, semi-double, formal double, peony, anemone and rose. Flowers may be white, red, every shade of pink or striped. Some varieties have dense growth, some airy; some are low-growing, but most grow to at least 2m tall. The best place to see camellias in bloom is at Vergelegen Estate near Somerset West, which is home to South Africa's International Camellia Garden of Excellence. Find out more about its special Camellia Celebration Weekend from August 1-2, 2015 at vergelegen.co.za. Booking essential. 4 steps to success 1. PLACING: Camellias are woodland plants, so dappled shade or morning sun is best. Red and dark pink varieties can take more sun than pale pinks and whites. If your garden lacks shade, go for sun-tolerant Camellia sasanqua cultivars, which flower in autumn. Choose a sheltered spot. Get growing: container gardening for beginners2. PLANTING: Soil should be acid to neutral. If your garden soil is alkaline, plant in pots in an acidic compost mix. Camellias have shallow root systems and must not be planted deeper than the soil level in their nursery container. Surface roots can even be left slightly exposed, because plants need air around their necks, where the stem joins the root system. Mulch is good, but should be kept clear of the stem. Young plants should not be put into pots much larger than their root ball; rather pot them on as they grow.3. WATERING: Camellias are fairly thirsty, so they are not suited to hot, dry regions. They prefer damp but well-drained soil and, depending on rainfall, should be watered deeply once a week. They enjoy humidity, so spray the whole plant when you water.4. CARE: Well-placed and planted, camellias don't need coddling. Keep them well mulched, prune lightly after flowering and feed in spring and midsummer with a dressing of slow-release pellets, compost or old kraal manure. Old plants respond well to drastic pruning.For more info, visit internationalcamellia.org.