It's winter. You are chilling in PE. It's too cold for the beach. Hmm. A cup of coffee would warm you up, but you can do that anywhere.Wait though, there is an option to get your blood moving along nicely - and make you thankful once again that you are in Africa. Why walk the 100km Amatola Hiking Trail, when you could run it?While the less adventurous are sipping their lattes and guzzling chocolate-coated artery-cloggers, you can pull on your walking shoes, hop in your car and head out on the N2 for a quick mini-adventure.About 15 minutes later, if you have obeyed the speed limit and followed the directions properly, you will be standing slack-jawed at the sight of the fireworks display put on by the floral residents of the Swartkops Aloe Reserve every June and July.Fiery aloes carpet the plateau and slopes above the awesome Swartkops River estuary, and for an up-close view of them you can walk one of two trails through the reserve - there's a 2km stroll and one of 7km.They start at the same point and follow a rocky path lined at first with tall, dense and thorny coastal thicket punctuated by flaming beauties and the song of hundreds of birds, including sunbirds.But don't wear out that camera battery yet. Save some juice and card space because the bush soon thins and you will have sweeping views across the reserve to the sea in the background.A short while later, the path comes to a T-junction at the edge of the plateau.To the right is where the trails diverge, but if you make a quick detour along the left-hand path, you will be treated to a great view of the waterfront hamlet of Amsterdamhoek and the bridge that carries the N2 over the river mouth.Look to the left, and there are hundreds of aloes marching like soldiers with red flares across the sides of a small valley.Now you can make an about-turn and head for the trails-proper.Just past the T-junction, they are marked by arrows - red for the long one and yellow for the short.If you have other things to do in PE, the wise option would be to take the short walk.But before doing that, carry on straight along the edge of the plateau for about 10 minutes for stunning views of the estuary with the city in the background, as well as up the river towards Uitenhage - framed by aloes.A leisurely stroll along the short, thicket-lined path will take you back to the car in about 20 minutes. Along the way, what will you see? More aloes, of course. But take it slowly because there are many other plants, the birds and you might get very lucky and stumble across a grysbok, bushpig or blue duiker.Before heading back to PE, it is worth going down Tippers Creek Road to Amsterdamhoek for a quick look at the estuary. You should get out of the car and take a little stroll along the waterfront road, which is lined with houses and their private jetties on the water's edge.</img>The hamlet of Amsterdamhoek on the banks of the Swartkops River. Image: Pat Sydie The hamlet of Amsterdamhoek on the banks of the Swartkops River. Image: Pat Sydie There is also a good chance you will catch sight of some of the hundreds of bird species that depend on the river and its estuary.The vast Swartkops River ecosystem is not something that can be appreciated in a couple of hours and it would be well worth your while to set aside a good chunk of time to explore this natural treasure the next time you visit Port Elizabeth.Sadly, a large part of it is under threat from pollution, over-exploitation and poaching but a fierce battle is being waged to save it.The naming of Amsterdamhoek is interesting. On December 16 1817, a Dutch man o' war, the Amsterdam, started taking in water during a bad storm in Algoa Bay.After hours of struggling to save the ship, captain Hermanus Hofmeijer ran it aground near the Swartkops mouth to protect his crew. In spite of this, three of the 223 men on board lost their lives in the drama. The little hamlet was named in honour of the men and their ship.Wow, what a morning! What to do now? Well, there are those trendy coffee places in Stanley Street back in town.GETTING THERETake the N2 out of Port Elizabeth in the direction of Grahamstown. After about 13km, you will cross the bridge over the river mouth. Shortly afterwards you will see the turn-off to Bluewater Bay. Take that and turn left, heading towards the lighthouse. At the traffic light, turn left into Hillcrest Drive.Carry on until you reach the T-junction with Riverside Drive. Turn right and continue until you reach Tippers Creek Road. Turn right and almost immediately left again onto the grassed parking area. There is a sign indicating the start of the trails. If you are travelling from the Grahamstown side, just take the Bluewater Bay turn-off, head for the lighthouse and follow the directions above.