This shutting down of a useful possibility rendered England's leading run scorer in all forms a non-person and must have thrilled Australia.Like it or not - loathe Pietersen or miss him - the last thing Australia would want England to do is fix a rapprochement between "KP", Andrew Strauss and captain Alastair Cook and send the old trouble-maker bouncing down the steps at Edgbaston for next week's third test. The victors at Lord's would much rather take aim at Jonny Bairstow, who replaces Gary Ballance.In any event there would be no guarantee of a Pietersen miracle in Birmingham or beyond. But Michael Clarke's team know their old foe remains capable of snatching a test away from them. Only Joe Root, in the current side, gives them that fear. CSA's World Cup claim rubbishedWhat rankles more than the policy of proceeding without him is the Establishment implication that his name is un-sayable, his England career un-revivable - because of grudges and grievances - when most of the ticket-buying public would love to see him take on Mitchell Johnson again.Strauss refused to rule out the possibility of Pietersen returning at some unspecified point, but that was probably legal caution. On fairness grounds alone, Pietersen ought to have the same rights as every other English cricketer.He should be considered "available for selection", not designated a pariah in a Caribbean T20 colony of one. Not content with sacking him once, of course, Pietersen's enemies went back and sacked him again. Two stakes to kill Dracula?So should he have been recalled after the Lord's debacle? Plenty of good judges think not. Bairstow has earned another chance, they say, and Pietersen is past tense. Even if that reading is correct (his 355 not out for Surrey 10 weeks ago leaves room for doubt), the implied banning of any further debate is objectionable.England's selectors were entitled to go with the new wave in Cardiff. But they had no right to pre-exclude the country's most gifted player for all five tests. The country's interests were not served; instead personal animosities were indulged, as they were in Australia at the end of the 2013-14 tour, when a risible dodgy dossier was used as an excuse to end his international career.If Lord's was the true measure of these two teams, Strauss will not be able to shut down scrutiny of his big decision the day Pietersen scored his 355 not out for Surrey. A potential bulwark for England against Australian power has been barred by feuds and politics; because Cook and Strauss could apparently not bear the thought of extending to Pietersen the same rights as every other player. - The Daily Telegraph, London