1. Study your plantsYou need to know which plants to prune, how much and when. You also need to understand how and why a plant grows the way it does. Do your homework, but also take a good look at your plants.2. Know the basicsSimple pruning involves the removal of dead or weak growth and crossing branches, which for many ornamentals may be quite enough. The next step is a more complicated cut (light or severe) to stimulate growth and encourage optimum flowering or fruiting. Hard pruning usually promotes more vigorous growth - great for revitalising a tired plant, but not if you are trying to tame a tiger.Handy winter gardening checklist: what to do now3. Study the picturePruning is also about enhancing the essential beauty of the plant, so it's an art as well a science. Even in the most naturalistic garden, you can prune lightly to highlight plant form and growth patterns. Topiary, hedging and training vines and fruit trees are more complicated interventions, in which the gardener actively directs the growth of the plant for a particular purpose or effect, but that's another story.4. Use the right toolsThe following tools will come in handy when pruning your garden. Keep the blades clean and well sharpened; wipe with meths during use. Soaking in oil (canola works well) is the best way to remove plant resin. A sturdy pair of pruning shears (bypass blades are more versatile than anvil) is essential. Long-handled shears for extra reach and leverage. A pruning saw for dead wood or branches thicker than 2.5cm. A tree or pole pruner, for reaching tall shoots and branches, is a very useful extra.5. Get the timing rightJuly is generally regarded as the right time to begin pruning. In cold or exposed areas, however, resist removing dead or frosted foliage until all danger of frost is past. Spring-blooming ornamentals must only be pruned once they have finished flowering. Unsure? Ask local gardeners or nursery staff.7 of the best winter veggies to plant now6. Don't get carried awayOnce you have a pair of secateurs in your hand, it's all too easy to go too far, especially when working closely. Take your time: decide on how much to cut and where from a distance, and keep stepping back while you work to check.7. FeedAfter pruning, always feed and mulch plants. Topdressing with a pelleted manure or non-burn organic granular feed makes this easy.8. Keep it upMajor seasonal pruning is important for certain plants, but others, such as bougainvillea, need frequent trimming if you are to avoid a mammoth task and a mountain of thorny cuttings. Light snipping as necessary (which will also feed the compost heap) is a good route for most ornamental plants.