It was the beginning of a brilliant career. After the vulture I moved on to a cartoon shark. Name: Mr Jaws. He had a top hat and a little waistcoat, and affected a German accent. I could not say what exactly it was I liked about him, but that's the whole point. The best crushes are incomprehensible, the ones to which you can assign no sense or meaning. How to explain, for instance, my almost lifelong crush on Snoopy? How to further explain the fact that my real-life partner, now, reminds me of Snoopy in ways I do not wish to examine? 'Hey babe, this guy will teach you to pleasure me better'In Barbara Pym's Excellent Women, the narrator scopes out a potential crush. Name: Everard Bone. She says, "There was certainly nothing romantic about him, but was he perhaps just a little splendid?" This is exactly right - crush objects don't have to be romantic, but they do always have to be just a little splendid. Crushes are formative. They give meaning and purpose to one's day. I am not speaking here of debilitating, life-altering passions. Those are no fun at all, and likely to end in tears. Also, they are hell on the appearance. Crushes, on the other hand, bring a pleasing redness to the cheek and a glitter to the eye. They are good for the circulation and the appetite.The ideal crush object is someone that you will never meet. Really, they should be fictional, or at least dead. This way, you are free to imagine all the excellent times you would have together, the laughs, the jokes, the free exchange of complementary views. A crush will never let you down, or wear a creepy outfit, or like the Red Hot Chilli Peppers too much, or tell you for a long time about their Art. A crush will never turn out to have a tattoo of an Ayn Rand quotation on the base of their spine. They will never turn out to be possessive of their stationery, or correct your grammar, or refer to the internet as "the interwebs". They will never play an embarrassing instrument. This is just off the top of my head, you understand. A crush will never do any of these things because, for your purposes, they exist only in your head. Yours is a love whose month is ever May.Excellent Women, by the way, is as handy a guide to crushes as you could ever wish for. Here is the narrator, considering Everard Bone: "I realised that one might love him secretly with no hope of encouragement, which can be very enjoyable for the young." The young, yes, but the old too, as well as everyone in the middle. The peculiar charms of a pointless crush should never be underestimated.