There are so many ways to garden indoors now - vertical, overhead and horizontal. Some require planning, DIY and patience, while others can be as simple as bringing home a gorgeous little pot in glossy leaf or flower to spark up a room. And supermarkets are making this even easier with an ever-increasing range of plants. Get growing: container gardening for beginnersRight now you should find spring bulbs in bud or flower, along with primroses, orchids, succulents, herbs and standard foliage plants. And pots range from plastic to terracotta, ceramic and glass, making them instant decor items.For a much wider range of foliage and flowering plants, from small gems to bold statements - and a more relaxed and enjoyable experience - visit a nursery.Seasonal plants like spring bulbs and primroses have short decorative lives, but orchids can last for months and foliage plants for years.CHOOSING &amp; CARING FOR POT PLANTS Check plants for general glowing health, new shoots and buds. Avoid plants with yellowing leaves or roots growing through the base of the pot. Always follow the instructions on the label or do your homework on the plant's water and light needs. Your newly purchased plant has been on a regular feeding regime; keep it up by applying a liquid feed such as Seagro, Nitrosol or Multisol "K" at least once a month. Keep plants free of dust with a damp cloth, cotton buds (good for cacti) or plant wipes.REPOTTINGNow is also a very good time to repot your permanent favourites. Trees may need their roots pruned if they are to go back into the same pot. Use a rich mix of compost and potting soil, plus water-retaining granules such as Aquasoil or vermiculite. Adding a bit of bonemeal is also good.HOT TREND: HANGING PLANTSKokedama are hanging plants in balls of moss and string. Succulents and epiphytes such as ferns and orchids work well and look wonderful suspended in groups. As with all hanging planters, watering is the trickiest part. You may need to mist them daily or take them down when the ball feels light and soak them for about five minutes. Visit opusstudio.co.za.