Plants in cracks and crevices: delightful in nature and even more so in the city. This enterprising charm is something to make the most of, especially in a small urban garden. Flexible paving, which means laying slabs or bricks on sand not in cement is the answer. Bush craft: Hardy shrubs you can leave aloneYou could go superbly rustic with what you may have on site: large slabs of stone if you are lucky enough to live on a koppie or near a quarry; big broken pieces of post-demolition concrete also work very well, especially once plants are established. Concrete pavers, the larger the better, are the simplest choice and there s an excellent selection available, as honest concrete or mock stone.These make for a more formal or structured approach, which you can work out on paper. The design possibilities are endless, especially if combined with brick, gravel or pebbles. You could go for a simple grid of large squares with a space of 3cm between them, perhaps leaving the odd square clear. Or consider a more complicated graphic with a clear tightly jointed area flanked by strips or squares of different sizes for gravelling and planting.Make sure that drainage is good, get your levels right and lay the pavers so that they stand higher than the soil or gravelled areas. Soil in cracks and planting areas should be a rich mix of sand and compost. Aim for plants that will make themselves at home, spread or self-seed and surprise you season after season. It may take time to find the most suitable plants, but the process will be a fascinating and enjoyable one. Planting pointers Modernist gardeners might choose just one or two kinds of plant. We saw a wonderful courtyard at Dainfern, a simple grid of square pavers interplanted with fleabane (Erigeron karvinskianus), which turned it into an airy meadow. Cottage gardeners will opt for variety and need only be restricted by the amount of sun and shade available. A packet or two of seed is a good way to start. Think in terms of a combination of cloudy and clumpy: Virginian stocks, nierembergia, sweet alyssum, dianthus and violas are all also generous selfseeders. Indigenous gardeners have loads to choose from: robust arctotis, gazanias, diascias and succulents for sun; and daintier sutera, dymondia, asparagus and many other koppie and cliff-growers for semi-shade. Small spring bulbs make a lovely addition. Cooks will find the paved garden the perfect way to grow herbs. Containers add valuable height and look especially good if their plants self-seed around them. Volunteers: some of the best plants might arrive on their own, but undesirable weeds must be nipped out while they are still tiny.