There are countless songs about music. I say "countless" because I gave up counting when a search for song titles containing the word "rock" returned close to 50 results. To be fair, one of these was Rock of Ages, but I let that slide (it was my grandmother's favourite hymn).Once you start thinking of songs about music, it's hard to stop. The Kinks and the Village People both had songs called Can't Stop the Music. Abba said Thank You for the Music and far too many people sing about the blues. Janis Joplin was Buried Alive in the Blues, which just shows you what an unhealthy musical genre it is. How we d speak without Greek"Face the music" is something we say to miscreants not prepared to take the consequences of their crimes. It's a useful phrase, and more lyrical than "pay back the money", but its origins are as murky as the lyrics of a Beck song.The Phrase Finder tells us that "face the music" originated in the US in the 19th century, but there is no definitive proof of what it meant. One possibility involves disgraced soldiers who did the walk of shame to the beat of military drums as they left their regiment (which also gives a clue to the meaning of "drummed out"). Another theory is that it referred to nervous actors who had to face the orchestra in the pit below the stage.Speaking of orchestras, one of the most commonly misheard lyrics comes from the Electric Light Orchestra's song Evil Woman. The line is: "You found a fool lying in a daze" but those of us with wooden ears have always wondered why "you found Ethel lying in a daze".Musical pedants may know that a misheard lyric is known as a "mondegreen". Excavating the origin of this word turned up more treasure.It was inadvertently coined by American writer Sylvia Wright. In an essay for Harper's Magazine in 1954, she told the story of how as a child she had misheard part of a Scottish ballad read to her by her mother. Instead of "They hae slain the Earl of Moray/And hae laid him on the green", Wright heard: "They hae slain the Earl Amurray/And Lady Mondegreen."Heaven knows how this word caught on and became a meme before the advent of social media (and before the coining of the word "meme"), but there you have it. Scores of websites are now devoted to the mondegreen, and many mondegreens are attached to songs about rock'n'roll (no matter how old it gets, it's still rock'n'roll, and we still like it). A beginner's guide to ghetto slangOne of my favourite rock mondegreens is the mangling of We Built This City (on rock'n'roll), by the band Starship, which was known as Jefferson Starship in a previous incarnation (band names evolve just as language does, although rock'n'roll remains the same and hardly anyone ever gets the apostrophes right).A friend insists, and will brook no argument, that the song goes: "We built this city on the wrong damn road." Who am I to argue?Arguing with a person about the words of a song they have sung along to incorrectly for years is about as productive as trying to change someone's taste in music. Hell hath no fury like a disciple of trance when you tell him that every piece of music in his beloved genre sounds exactly the same.Which reminds me of another frequently misquoted line, this time from a poem by William Congreve. The quote spouted by those with pretensions is, "Music hath charms to soothe the savage beast," which is not only untrue (I give you the trance fan) but wrong.In The Mourning Bride, published in 1697, Congreve wrote (the spelling is his): "Musick has Charms to sooth a savage Breast/To soften Rocks, or bend a knotted Oak."Which just goes to show that rock has been with us for ages.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1