We take music very seriously as humans. It punctuates our lives: parties, funerals, happy things, sad things, new relationships, break-ups.It becomes imperative, then, to have good taste in the stuff, because if you are failing at music, you are failing at life. But for years now I've been making poor musical choices and ill-considered iTunes purchases.I have admitted this to myself and now I need to fix it.I love all the artists that people cringe-dance to. Are you familiar with the "Shoulder Shake of Shame"? This happens when you have good taste in music and hear a terrible song, and then somehow your shoulders involuntarily shake to it, much to your disgust. If you catch the shake in time, nobody will see it.But I shake my booty openly to Pitbull. I throw my hands in the air for Paris Hilton. Why is my life a broken mess? Why do I feel no shame when I shake?I don't know where it all went wrong. Maybe I made friends with the wrong crowd early on. Maybe my parents ruined me - they would watch rugby and cricket instead of listening to free jazz and what not. Maybe I've attended one too many "discos" and "socials" with questionable DJs. This is not through my own doing. I'm a victim of my environment. Musings about misheard lyrics But the first step is admitting you have a problem. A few weeks ago I threw a dinner party, and had to choose the music. It hit me that a bunch of people I really like would hear a bunch of songs that I'd curated. The power of the playlist was mine.I decided not to go with what I thought these people would like, but rather to give them what I liked.An error, in hindsight.In fairness, you don't always know what people listen to behind closed doors, and when you go to their dinner party, you discover just how messed up they are.To cut a painfully underwhelming story short, I tanked. I combined Rita Ora, David Guetta and some Drake: fist-pumping failure with a hint of hammy heartache.My butter chicken, however, was a top40 hit - or perhaps a slow-burning indie classic.Music is a subjective thing, right? You like what you like and you can't be wrong. But the thing is, you can. It is one of the very few spaces where free will is scrutinised and thwarted. You can love music but it has to be the right music. God forbid you enjoy commercial radio or shake your hips to some adult contemporary. Away with you!There needs to be more support for those who've lacked guidance. But we also need greater willingness on the part of music snobs to see reason in other people's choices. We're tired of being shunned and ridiculed because our #nowplaying on social media features a bit of Selena Gomez.To conclude, can we now please sing a cheesy choral version of World in Union?