Cover your eyes if you're under 18: the word yoni means "sacred space" in Sanskrit and refers to the vagina. At these workshops Searll gives a lecture on how to massage the vagina, then he gives a practical demonstration on a model, and then they dim the lights, play some music (please God don't let it be Enya) and the couples all give it a go, under towels, blankets or sarongs if they're shy.Yes people, while you're at home on a Thursday night watching Game of Thrones, this is what's going on out there. 4 love apps to help you avoid real-time dating disastersI'm not dissing what Searll does. On the contrary, I've got a lot of respect for him. It must take stamina, patience and a strong stomach. And if you've ever been with anyone who doesn't know their way around down under, you'll agree he's offering a service to humanity. There's also clearly a demand for it, Searll can get up to 15 couples at a workshop.So it's less what he's doing that floored me, and more his methods. I just can't picture myself with a partner who is getting me off in a room full of people also getting each other off. It's the same reason I could never go see that awful Fifty Shades of Grey in the cinema. When the lights come up and you all have to file out, how do you face each other?It's shocking, I know: a squeamish erotica writer. If I were a proper sex journalist I'd be signing myself up for the next class, hauling my ass over there and taking notes, but but but... just No. I'd rather report from the front lines of a war zone.I did wonder if there were any circumstances under which I would be willing to take a yoni massage workshop. What's creepier, a group setting or one-on-one? For me, they're equally creepy.Surely the other problem is suggesting it to your partner without offending him."Hey babe, there's this guy who will teach you how to pleasure me better.""Why, what's wrong with the way I pleasure you now?"I can't see it going well.There's no such thing as the perfect penisSearll also sells a DVD, so you could just leave that lying around one night when you go to book club. To guarantee your partner watches it, print out the cover for the new Mad Max movie and stick that on the front.Then there's Dr John Hagee, a pastor from Texas who's been in the news because he believes women who call out the Lord's name during sex should be prosecuted for blasphemy. Christ on a bike, really? Pastor Lunatic claims there's no greater crime than wrongly using God's name during sexy times. I could think of a few, he should move to South Africa.So, on second thoughts, who would you rather be in a room learning from - the open-minded masturbation instructor or the small-minded religious zealot? Give me the masturbation instructor any day: oh yes, oh yes, oh God, YES!Follow Paige Nick the author of this article on Twitter: @paigen