How often do we get to see bare skin on an animated prince?At most, they seem to break out a forearm, inexplicably decorated with three, long hairs. Apart from Tarzan or Aladdin, rarely do we get a glimpse of calves, abs or thighs on those animated guys.Perhaps it is because our ingrained objectification has never lent to gawking at mankles with desire.With their regulation square jaws and fabulous hair, princes are tame game. Bye-bye Barbie and hello black, beautiful dollsBut try to find a princess or heroine who is not buxom and curvy.Only Snow White seems to be flat-chested. The rest are drawn in the form of what society deems a hottie: tiny waist, at least a B-cup, long legs and pretty, made-up faces and hair.Oh, there is Merida in Brave. The antithesis of a girly princess gone so wrong that she looks unkempt rather than purposely nonchalant about grooming. There is nothing wrong with brushing your hair.The issue is that Pocahontas is practically naked. Tinkerbell wears a tiny leaf dress that barely covers her bum. Deviant art, memes and porn dedicated to hot princesses far outweigh perving over princes. (Don t search for this if you want to keep the magic alive.)I always wondered if there was a missed synapse connection in the heads of parents who moaned about their kids being subjected to gender stereotyping early on. How influential is an animated character on a child, really? Then I saw the hit Disney animation, Frozen.While I still don t believe that playing with a skinny Barbie encourages eating disorders, I recently realised just how much young kids buy into popular culture s definition of beauty and success.The downtrodden Queen Elsa threw off her cape and matronly dress, buttoned to her throat, changing into a figure-hugging, low-cut number and seemingly a Wonderbra, with a slit above the knee. Plus beautiful side braid.She looked gorgeous and I was thrilled for her liberation.What concerned me is that my two-year old daughter s eyes lit up in joy and wonder, and she asked to change out of pyjamas into an Elsa dress . She did not mean the frumpy dress. Could Elsa not be free and happy without being that sexy? Boys might aspire for the bulky muscles of their superheroes and strong male characters, like Batman (a bachelor playboy) and Superman (an alien) but that might be considered a positive for masculinity.How do parents create a balance between embracing and celebrating the female form, and perpetuating the cycle of sexually objectified women? We cannot hide in our carefully selected books forever.It will come up in real life. You only have to watch the tennis to see the disparity. Rear shots of skirts aplenty, never any of men in tight shorts.Not that equal exploitation is the answer, nor is androgyny and brown hemp sacks.Let it be magical and otherworldly. But can pop art at least challenge what beauty and success looks like?More of the attractive, doctor mum with curvy, size 12 hips and her stay-home husband who moonlights as a chef.Where are the glamorous astronauts and power-suited investment bankers? Turn Amal Clooney into an animated character already. Give us supermums, who don t all look like Elsa, some options. And some credit for our own curves.