State Security Agency (SSA) officials - according to leaked e-mails - approached a controversial Italian surveillance company to inquire about new technology capable of discreetly siphoning data off cellphones and computers. Details of those interactions are buried in a cache of company e-mails stolen from Hacking Team and released by WikiLeaks. Mikhail Fridman: the Alpha oligarchPolice and the South African Revenue Service were also interested in the spyware. The device, Remote Control System, can activate a cellphone's microphone to bug conversations.Leaked correspondence shows that a person, known to the Sunday Times, contacted Hacking Team on behalf of the "South African government". Naming colleagues who were given a demonstration of spyware by the firm, he apologised for not replying to a quotation as "our procurement process was interrupted ... Could you please quote us again on your system," he wrote.He explained, in 2013, the need to monitor "authorised target computers, tablets and smartphones" using "all the solutions that you have".The Sunday Times has confirmed that people mentioned in the e-mails work for the State Security Agency.SSA spokesman Brian Dube said the agency regarded the disclosure of members' names as serious as their identity was protected by legislation. "Generally, we don't comment on operational matters, more so on sources-based leaks, save to say government agencies across the world do from time to time make inquiries in relation to improving their capacities, provided same is done in terms of the law," he said.Hacking Team enables governments to intercept e-mails, phone calls and chat messages lawfully and to defeat encryption. But this type of technology has also been abused. Businessman and former ANC national executive committee member Saki Macozoma was monitored unlawfully in 2005 and, more recently, Sunday Times journalists' cellphones were bugged.The e-mail cache contains correspondence from a mysterious middleman to Italy in 2011, saying South Africa was interested in Hacking Team's technology. "We have been approached by two government agencies (our customers) interested to procure a remote monitoring solution ... We are talking about South Africa NIA and Georgia MoI." SA spies scary shopping list revealedThe SSA replaced the National Intelligence Agency. Georgia's Ministry of the Interior was criticised at about that time for alleged human rights violations. The middleman did not respond to e-mailed questions.Curiously, this year, forensic specialist Peter Fryer asked Hacking Team to show its software to a "client". Fryer operates Risk Diversion Digital in Pretoria but was, at the time, working for consultancy PwC. "The client is the Ministry of Defence of South Africa. More specifically the Defence Intelligence," he said.Brigadier-General Xolani Mabanga denied that Defence Intelligence had a relationship with Hacking Team and was unaware of a planned visit to demonstrate its products.Fryer referred inquiries to PwC, whose spokesman, Sanchia Temkin, said: "We do not discuss our dealings with potential clients with any third party as we adhere to our professional code of conduct that deals with confidentiality."SARS spokesman Luther Lebelo said it was probing e-mails between Helgard Lombard - a former member of a rogue spy unit at SARS - and Hacking Team.