1. GREEK CABBAGE ROLLS 1) Combine 500g beef mince with 1 egg, 90g raw risotto rice and 2 stalks of snipped dill, and add a little olive oil to bind together. Season with salt and pepper. Shape into 18 rolls.2) Blanch 18 cabbage leaves in boiling, salted water. It's best done one leaf at a time, then remove and dry.Tonight's supper: Low-carb chorizo & cabbage pie3) Place one meat roll on a cabbage leaf towards the base and roll up, folding in the edges.4) Line the bottom of a large lidded pot with 1 sliced carrot, leaves of two stalks of celery, 1 sliced onion and 1 large red tomato, peeled and chopped. Season generously.5) Lay the stuffed cabbage rolls, fold-side down, in a single layer over the vegetables so they are packed snugly into the pot. Pour over 500ml (2 cups) of chicken stock and place an inverted plate on top of cabbage rolls to keep them down. Bring to the boil, then reduce to a simmer and cook for an hour.6) Serve with a homemade tomato or traditional Greek egg-lemon sauce. 2. BANTING-FRIENDLY CABBAGE PIZZA 1) Take one large cabbage and cut into 1.5 cm slices.2) Line a baking tray with greaseproof paper and place the cabbage slices on the paper. Drizzle cabbage with olive oil and season and bake at 180 C for 8 minutes.3) Remove and smear the top of each cabbage slice with tomato passata mixed with crushed garlic and dried Italian herbs. Top with grated mozzarella cheese then add a few pitted olives, baby tomatoes and finely sliced onion. Drizzle with olive oil and bake for a further 10 minutes and serve. 3. CABBAGE SALAD WITH A TWIST OF CITRUS 1) In a serving dish, combine 1 packet of ready-sliced cabbage and carrot with 2 oranges, peeled and segmented, 2 sliced stalks of celery and 1 sliced stalk of fennel.2) Combine 60ml (4 tbsp) olive oil, 45ml (3 tbsp) orange juice, 1 crushed clove of garlic, a pinch of mustard powder, and salt and pepper. Mix well and pour over the salad.3) Top off with toasted sunflower seeds. Allow to stand for 30 minutes before serving.