For instance, for the first 30-odd years of my life I knew, and everyone I know also knew, that eating fatty food made you fat. Especially animal fat.If you absolutely had to consume fat, it was common cause that vegetable oil was the way to go, which is why Flora sales skyrocketed, see? This was just common knowledge that only an idiot would dispute. Fast forward a few decades and anyone on the Banting diet "knows" that animal fat is good for you. (Disclaimer: yes, "in moderation". To avoid angry e-mails from disciples who worship at the Temple of Banting.) Even the people in the parable of the prodigal son in the Bible seem to have been Banting because they feasted on a fatted calf. Lard is good for you; that's the new common knowledge.Growing up, it was also common knowledge that eating plenty of oranges during winter reduced not only the frequency but also the severity and duration of colds because of the high vitamin C content in the fruit. Well, for starters, yellow bell peppers, kiwi fruit and even broccoli all contain more vitamin C than oranges. Worst fears of a bromance - the dreaded dudevorceAnd also, upon further probing, one might discover that vitamin C's efficacy in fighting colds is ... not as cast in stone as common wisdom might suggest. I wish I'd known this before my gran made me consume half-a-dozen oranges every day during the July holidays, usually after forcing a bottle of castor oil down my throat. I ate so many oranges in my childhood I started hallucinating that my nails were turning orange.The same goes for the "fact" that lightning never strikes the same place twice or the "fact" that it's impossible to fold a sheet of paper in half more than seven times. In fact, a bored US schoolgirl called Britney Gallivan folded a sheet of paper in half a whopping 12 times in 2002, before going on to do the archetypical American thing; she wrote a book about it.Speaking of Americans, they celebrate Columbus Day every October because he is credited with "discovering" America. Let's ignore the absurdity of "discovering" places that are already inhabited by humans. Like Native Americans, we also know all too well in these parts that until it is validated by Europeans, a land remains "undiscovered".However, the ultimate absurdity about the US celebrating Columbus Day is that not only was Columbus not the first European to land in the Americas but - wait for it - he actually never set foot on the North American continent, let alone the part where the US is now. At least we know that Jan van Riebeeck did actually land here, sporting his hippie hair and tights. Or did he?Discovering that what you've known to be true all your life is, in a manner of speaking, dog excrement, is an extremely difficult thing to accept and internalise. Stupidity is nothing more than the failure (or reluctance) to allow the ingress of new information to change one's mind That's why we still have several Flat Earth societies around the world, including one led by an Eric Dubay who has even posted clips on YouTube "proving" that the Earth is indeed flat and, by extension, that Galileo must have been drinking from a calabash of particularly potent mqombothi.It seems to me that stupidity is nothing more than the failure (or reluctance) to allow the ingress of new information to change one's mind. Humans rarely change their minds, particularly when faced with irrefutable evidence that their cherished beliefs have in fact been plucked from their own or someone else's colon.We have amazingly deep confidence in all the things we "know". One human year is the equivalent to seven dog years. High sugar intake makes children hyperactive. And of course, money can't buy you happiness - despite all the evidence to the contrary. In fact, money has made Donald Trump so happy he's running for president and trying to start a war with Mexico. Sanctimony interruptus: When righteous indignation goes wrongBeing certain of everything you think you know is a great confidence builder. Just ask our own Mmusi. It takes a special hue of certainty and self-assuredness to stand just 5m from a sitting president and tell him to his face that he is a broken president leading a broken nation. Until that moment, I had been operating under the delusion that I was intact, but since then I periodically stare at the mirror, looking for fissures symptomatic of the broken person that I apparently am.I guess the $64 000 question then is this: what do any of us know? Very little, really. Contrary to popular belief, Everest is not the tallest peak on the planet. The Great Wall of China is not the only man-made structure visible from the moon. Judge Hilary Squires never referred to a "generally corrupt relationship" between Jacob Zuma and Schabir Shaik - even though the phrase is repeated ad nauseam whenever I listen to talk radio.Having said all that, there's one lie I'm unwilling to let go of. One Thomas Crapper is widely credited with inventing the flush toilet, despite this "fact" being utterly false. But come on! If Crapper didn't invent the crapper, what do we have left?E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo