I haven't read it, but in his review for the New Scientist, Adrian Barnett says that the genus Mollusca encompasses not just slugs and snails, but "clams, chitons, squid and octopus, plus exotics like wing-footed sea butterflies, living-fossil monoplacophorans and hyper-frilly Spanish dancers".Who knew? The Pedant Class: "Alleged" is the ally of the cautious journalistI like the word "snail". It has a satisfying resonance that creeps through the cavities of both nose and mouth. According to the Online Etymology Dictionary it comes from the root "sneg", a crawling thing. In Old English it was the diminutive of "snaca", which meant snake.About a thousand years ago, the little snake became a symbol of slowness, and 400 years later the phrase "snail's pace" caught on. The invention of e-mail gave us "snail mail" for items sent by physical post. Once that caught on there was no dislodging it.The Old English for reptile was "slincend" because reptiles tend to slink. Snails, which do not so much slink as scrape, were squashed into the reptile class up until the 19th century, when they split off and became molluscs.But back to authors who write about subjects that rhyme with their names. I think more attention should be paid to this genre. Howard should write about cowards, Zuma about rumours and Stein about wine.Snail fans are not limited to those with rhyming names. Patricia Highsmith, author of The Talented Mr Ripley, was obsessed with the creatures. Her biographer Andrew Wilson divulges details of the hundred snails she kept in her handbag (with a head of lettuce to hold their attention), and the clutch of illegal pets she smuggled into France by tucking them under her breasts. In a radio interview in 1965 she said she kept snails because "they give me a sort of tranquillity", although her short story The Snail Watcher is the opposite of tranquil: it is about a snail breeder suffocated by a mass of sticky gastropods.South Africa has its own literary snail enthusiast in the form of poet, cartoonist and pharmacist Gus Ferguson. He founded the publishing house SnailPress and has written many an ode to the slow and slimy, such as:Gus Ferguson should be martyredBut not with wood and nailshe should be wrapped in lettuce leavesand thrown amongst his snails.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerI suspect that snail lovers are attracted not just by easy catchability but by the spiral character of snail shells. Spirals hold a particular fascination for mathematicians, starting with Archimedes in the 3rd century BC.Spirals are also at work in the way words evolve, many of them getting progressively further away from their origins. Some words have travelled and turned and curved and twirled so far from their beginnings that they now mean the opposite of what they used to."Egregious", "awful" and "specious" used all to mean good. "Terrific" used to mean bad. "Moot" once described an important point up for discussion. "Manufacture" once meant to make something by hand. "Sad" meant happy, "stupid" meant amazed, "nice" meant silly, "silly" meant blessed, and a "symposium" was formerly a gathering attended for the express purpose of getting drunk (OK, maybe that one hasn't changed so much).Every day we see or hear words whose meanings have spiralled out of control. I am always wailing about "literally" being used in place of "figuratively" (and I will continue to wail, even though certain dictionaries now accept this abomination).There are loads more of these snail-trail words. In the 15th century an "ass man" was a donkey driver. "Fizzle" once meant the act of emitting flatulence without sound, and a "pedant" was a knowledgeable schoolmaster. How things change.