The reader's question was: When did "growth" outgrow agriculture and put forth tendrils into the fields of commerce and psychology?I have been unable to ascertain exactly when this bad seed was planted, but hardly a day goes by without our ears being assailed by the term "personal growth". It makes me think of a pet tumour. "Meet Bob, my personal growth. I'm thinking of starting a fund for him."Books shortlisted for literary awards 'open a window on SA lives'Personal growth usually refers to the betterment of one's personality or the expansion of one's assets. It is not a euphemism for weight gain, but perhaps it should be.In the case of plants, "primary growth" is when they grow longer or taller, and "secondary growth" is when they grow thicker. I think we should apply the same terms to humans. "He has achieved some secondary growth" sounds much more polite than, "Wow, he's got so fat."Shakespeare was quite fond of the word "growth". He used it in the context of beards, weeds and time, but mostly to describe the development of humans. My favourite quote is from Richard III, when the Duke of York says: "To touch his growth nearer than he touch'd mine."This sounds like two boys comparing warts ("I'll touch yours if you touch mine"), but York is making an elaborate joke about whether it is better to grow fast or slowly. Incidentally, the opening line of this play is one of the most abused of all Shakespearean sentences. "Now is the winter of our discontent ..." is proclaimed in isolation as an expression of complaint, but if you carry on reading ("...made glorious summer by this sun of York") it is a triumphant salute to better times.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerI think the growing of growth away from crops is a development we have to accept. "Crop" has itself grown far beyond its original meaning. It comes from the Old English cropp (previously Old Norse kropp) meaning the swollen gullet of a bird. From there it grew into a word for other kinds of protuberance, including the fat seed-heads on plants, from whence we obtained "crop" in the agricultural sense.According to the Phrase Finder, the word croup, pronounced "crop", referred to the rear end of a horse, also called the crupper. This word is still in use as the name of a piece of riding tack used on horses with insignificant shoulders. A crupper is a leather strap that runs from the saddle and under the horse's tail, to stop the saddle from sliding forward onto the horse's neck. Should you fall off the horse, either from its neck or from its rear, you would have "come a cropper".Both crop and growth illustrate the fertility of the English language. We pedants sometimes resist the primary and secondary growth of words, but as they say, there's no stopping progress, so we really should just grow up and accept it. Mostly.One development I would like to nip in the bud, however, is the phrase "grow down", which seems to be cropping up everywhere in American financial-speak. Why "grow down" a tax deficit when you could simply reduce it? Let's crop this noxious weed at the roots and toss it in the undergrowth.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1