I am absolutely devastated that it looks like my hopes of an England recall have been brought to a close, especially given everything that has been said and asked of me.I had a meeting with Andrew Strauss and Tom Harrison at a hotel in London this week. I expressed my fear to Tom last week when he asked for the meeting that I did not want to sit in a room and be told that I was not going to be picked for England again.I have been down that route before and I knew I would be in the middle of a game for Surrey which would need my whole focus and concentration.Tom said: "No, no, no you have had one of England's greatest careers and we need to work together." So, of course, I agreed to the meeting.I have never hidden my determination to again represent England, and having played one of the best innings of my career earlier in the day, I must admit I was riding the crest of a wave. I would naturally have to earn my recall, but at least I would be eligible. But no. Quite simply, I feel deeply misled. Yet, it now looks clear Tom knew exactly what Strauss was going to tell me.I messaged Tom after the meeting and asked him why he got me into a hotel knowing precisely what I was going to be told and after I had already explicitly asked him if that was going to be the case."You talk about trust," I said. He simply replied: "I am sorry you feel that way, Kevin."They have used the word trust to justify not selecting me, well, trust is a two-way thing.I couldn't believe just half-an-hour after I had my meeting, the result of it was on the internet and on the BBC airwaves. Now, I certainly didn't tell anybody, so who did? They say they don't trust me but how can anybody trust them?I went into the meeting expecting Strauss to say that England's batting order is good at the moment but if I continued to score runs and if an injury occurred, then I would be in contention to play. Steyn's twilight sagaI would naturally have to earn my recall, but at least I would be eligible. But no. Quite simply, I feel deeply misled. Tom has tried to say that Colin Graves was misrepresented by the media when he said there was a way back for me.I am afraid, as everyone can clearly see, this is the biggest load of rubbish. I had two phone conversations with Colin and he was crystal clear in saying I had to get a county, score runs and that there was a clean slate. He said that when he comes in as chairman he wants the best players playing for England.I have done everything I can. Was I lied to by the chairman? Only he can answer. Tom and Strauss have said all three of them are united in this decision, so I don't know what to think.What has happened since Colin told me if I scored county runs I would be available for selection?Nobody has called me. I have given up my Indian Premier League contract, at great expense, to play in county cricket.Surrey did not have any funds free to pay me, so I said I would play for nothing, just a donation to charity, and it is horrendous to feel I have been led down the garden path. They knew all along this was a dead end.I am angry and hurt, but right now there is nothing I can do about it.Strauss will be judged on his results. Yet I have heard from two very good sources that results do not matter this summer anyway. The job description for the director of cricket is focused on longer-term goals.</img>Kevin Pietersen of Surrey batting during the NatWest T20 Blast match between Surrey and Essex Eagles at The Kia Oval on June 6, 2014 in London, England. Image: Getty Images Tony MarshallKevin Pietersen of Surrey batting during the NatWest T20 Blast match between Surrey and Essex Eagles at The Kia Oval on June 6, 2014 in London, England. Image: Getty Images Tony MarshallBut if Strauss has been told he does not have to win this summer, then why should the players train and work hard? In essence, quite incredibly, they have all been given permission to lose the Ashes.It is an absolute disgrace if that is their mindset. Is this the reason Strauss got that job, because he would accept those conditions? Michael Vaughan and Alec Stewart certainly would not.It is true that after telling me I didn't have a future for England, Strauss offered me the chance to sit on his advisory panel. But I told him to forget it.At that point, I asked: "Who doesn't trust me? You have a new chairman, a new CEO, we have spent the last 10 minutes sorting out our differences like adults. Let's go through the batting order."I rattled off names. He could not give me any names. He said it is a broader thing and not just the players.I accepted that Alastair Cook and I need to sort a few things out. But I thought we could manage that and Strauss is in a position to facilitate it.I just find it incredibly deceitful what has happened to me and am frankly finding it difficult to understand right now. I have done everything I have been asked. I keep asking myself, what more could I do?