Traditionally served at the end of a meal, straight from the freezer in a well-chilled shot glass, the liqueur is a combination of many flavours in one. Firstly the wonderful aroma and zing of fresh lemon, followed by an almost lemonade sweetness tricking one to think that it's merely a cooldrink and finally the wake-up call; a boozy kick of vodka that inevitably calls for a second round.My love affair with limoncello began when Italian friends, both excellent cooks, proudly shared their homemade version of the liqueur after a particularly good meal - and then refused to part with their "secret" recipe and so my determination to make my very own limoncello was set in motion.Surprisingly it's incredibly simple to make and only uses the zest of lemons, not the fruit, which is steeped in vodka for a couple of weeks, then strained to remove the zest and combined with a sugar syrup and left in a dark cupboard to mature. The catch, as with making all homemade liqueurs, is that it's a time-consuming process requiring the patience of a saint. When making a batch I can't resist checking on the brew every day, soaking up the aromas which become more lemony and boozy as each day passes. Making your own limoncello comes with a warning as you'd be forgiven for thinking that perhaps your concoction is really a large quantity of urine (withouth the smell!) as the yellow of the lemon peel slowly starts leaching into the vodka. Take heart, because at this stage, it can only get better.5 fruity cocktail recipes you won't have tried beforeLIMONCELLO RECIPEMakes approximately 1.5 litresIngredients:10 lemons, well scrubbed1 litre vodka600g (3 cups) sugar1 litre waterMethod:1) Zest the lemons using a peeler or lemon zester that will give you long thin strips of peel without any pith (pith makes it bitter). Place the peel in a large glass bottle or jar. Pour over the vodka, cover loosely with a linen cloth and leave to infuse for 1-2 weeks at room temperature. 2) Strain the infused vodka through a very fine sieve and discard all peel. 3) Heat the sugar and water in a saucepan, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Stop stirring once it reaches boiling point. Boil without stirring for 15 minutes or until thickened. Remove from the heat and cool to room temperature. 4) Combine the syrup with the infused vodka, stirring to mix well. If any traces of lemon peel remain, strain again. Pour into sterilised glass bottles and seal. Leave to mature for at least 3 weeks at room temperature, stored in a dark cupboard. 5) Once matured, store the bottles in the freezer (the limoncello won't freeze because of the high alcohol content) and serve in chilled shot glasses. Salute!