South African cricket knows this truth and the challenges that lurk therein.There is no stopping change and cricket in this country is on the cusp of it. Nominations for a new selection panel closed at high noon on Thursday. And soon, Cricket SA (CSA) will name Allan Donald's replacement as the national team's bowling coach; if he is not Charl Langeveldt, a nation will be surprised. Next season franchises will be required to field six players of colour, three of them black African.South Africa will not be the number one-ranked test team forever. But they will win a World Cup. Maybe. One happy day there will be no need for a quota in the national team. Depressingly, that day, when the national team looks like the nation, seems too far away to unfurrow millions of brows both black and white.Move to lure Aussie cricket's top starsAsked what should change about South African cricket to ensure a brighter future, former first-class player Kevin McKenzie focused on the present: "I don't care who the hell you are, you are not going to win the World Cup in any sport if you don't play your best team."He was referring to the World Cup semifinal on March 24, when Vernon Philander was included in the Proteas team despite having missed four out of seven group matches with a hamstring injury that had limited his bowling to 20.3 out of a possible 70 overs.Several sources have told Sunday Times that Philander was picked on transformation grounds and CSA have admitted their chief executive, Haroon Lorgat, was "consulted" on selection."They made Vernon Philander look like a BEE player when he isn't - he was simply injured," McKenzie said.And another thing..."We're batting our best player at No5. AB de Villiers should bat no lower than No4 in every format. AB is the best player in the world and batting him at No5 is like batting Graeme Pollock at No5."McKenzie wanted fewer bits-and-pieces all-rounders and more specialists."If your top six can't get the runs, you're in the crap already," he said. "It would be great if numbers seven, eight and nine could bat, but you'd rather have them strengthening your bowling."A hard man even in his own era, McKenzie frowned on South Africa lugging a slew of consultants around the World Cup like excess baggage. "You need a good coach, a physio and a manager; and that should be it. Instead, it's overdone and you end up with a million guys telling you what to do." For Barry Richards, the road to the future went through a past still strewn with hurdles set up by apartheid."CSA need to embrace some of the older guys," Richards, who played for the all-white South African side before isolation, said. "You don't want to keep alienating them by poking them in the eye with a burnt stick."CSA could use the expertise of guys who are very wise but are seen as offside. I've never been asked to do diddly-squat, never been embraced."If CSA could only say, 'come and be part of the process'. Instead, there's an us-and-them situation. We don't want to tell the team how to play but it would be good to be involved."He favoured "someone level-headed and balanced, not a politician" to succeed Andrew Hudson. "Haroon must handle the politics; the selectors should not be put under pressure."That is unlikely, as Hudson explained: "My mandate was to achieve and maintain excellence but also to give opportunities and respect to transformation. I'll probably be criticised for not transforming aggressively enough, but we've got to stay strong as a team in the world game."As Brecht also said:"Everyone needs help from everyone."sports@timesmedia.co.za