Apparently I have a tendency to qualify everything I say by adding, "But of course I could be wrong," which he reckons is a line I must have subconsciously stolen from the American satirist Dennis Miller. This is a possibility, considering how much of Miller's work I have consumed over the years.The second habit I apparently have is a propensity to refer to my personality disorders. Again; guilty as charged. I do believe that I'm blessed with a plethora of personality defects. One of these is pedantry. For example, I have to bite down hard on my lip each time someone says, "I can't decipher what it says on that sign," because I want to yell, "You can't decipher what it reads on that sign! Reads, I tell ya!"The Pedant Class: The difference between bear and bare is a common bugbearI know that my hair-splitting, finicky nature is on steroids because this past weekend I walked into the TV lounge and said, "Can I switch over to SuperSport 3? I just want to check the score." I heard an echo of my own voice respond from my 10-year-old: "I think what you're asking is whether you may change the channel. And the answer is that of course you may."And he never even raised his face from his Minecraft game on his tablet while spewing out this sarcastic retort.The other day I was minding my own business when my phone rang. Unfamiliar number. I usually ignore unfamiliar numbers on my private phone. But I was in the type of good mood that can only be induced by Smirnoff 1818 with lime, lemonade and crushed ice. So I picked up the phone and the person on the other end went, "En wie praat nou?" ( Who's speaking now?).Irritation set in."It's the person you called speaking," I replied."Who's this?" he countered.Swoosh! That's the sound of the point of my initial response sailing above this Einstein's head, I guess. So I tried the direct route. "Look, you called me. Maybe you should tell me who you're looking for and we can take it from there."About five seconds later I was dropping the phone with the sound of "Hello! Hello! Who's there?" fading away.Then there are those who call me before 8am and when I pick up the phone, go, "Are you sleeping?" Yes, as a matter of fact, I am in the habit of answering my phone while sleeping.Another of my favourite stupid remarks that bring out my pedantic side has to do with the fact that 12 years ago we opted to buy a house behind the Boerewors Curtain, in Ekurhuleni. I cannot count the number of times numbskulls have said to me, "Good Lord, you live so far!"Most of the time, when I'm in a good mood, I respond, "Far from where?" However, a few times I have retorted, "Not really. The distance from where I live to my house is exactly zero metres, rounded off to two decimal places."My pedantic nature cannot help but make me wonder if people believe that where they live is the centre of the universe. A few times I've gone into a detailed account of Einstein's theory of relativity to point out that their places of abode are exactly the same distance from my house as mine is from theirs. You'd be amazed how many people consider this to be a revelation.Try this experiment; ask one of your friends if they would consider moving to Upington. I bet they'd tell you that Upington is too far. Then go to Upington and ask a random person if they'd move to Sandton and they would tell you the same thing. I believe that this was the point Jimmy Manyi was trying to make about people being too "concentrated" in Cape Town.Imbecility is hard-wired into our genesI've always wondered why it became necessary for banks to install wastepaper baskets next to ATMs. And then you get there and there are about 27 000 ATM slips at the machine. Roughly 26 500 of them on the ground around the basket, naturally. 'Coz that's just how we roll when it comes to littering here in Mzansi.But I can't help but observe that every ATM has the option of reading balances and statements electronically, on the screen. I naturally assume that anyone who prints out a slip wants to take it with them for whatever reason. If that's the case, why do people print out those slips, read them right there and then dump them on the floor? I'm literally too stupid to grasp this.In the second instalment of the extent of my nit-picking nature I will deal with people who feel the need to let you know that you've gained weight, presumably because science has not yet created a contraption that allows you, the fatso, to see a reflection of yourself. Maybe you just thought your pants were shrinking.If there's time I will tackle women who wear micro minis and then keep pulling them down every 10 seconds. If I was a female who put on a micro mini, I'd give my beaver a pep talk: "OK, I'm taking you out in public today."E-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo