And, if some women are to be believed, potty trained. Apparently some men never successfully reach this milestone.And if some men are to be believed, every woman has a strand of psychotic Gone Girl DNA in her, and there's a chance she will slit your throat while you slumber because you peed on the toilet seat, again.</img> Image: Supplied Image: SuppliedThe elusive relationship-child for which singles yearn. They imagine fireside wining and dining. In reality it's more braai and warm cider. Because life is not the stock photo of beautiful people staring lovingly at each other. Life is not the stick-figure family with the bike-riding dad and pretty mum in heels, toting cute kids and pet rabbit.The stock picture doesn't show the irritating in-laws lurking off-camera. The stick-figure family does not cater for tarty secretaries or sculpted personal trainers. Kids are added to the pot like little habaneros, bright and flavourful, but they'll burn your butt sometimes.Which is why the best advice I got from the internet oracle is this: never abandon your relationship if you have children under the age of two. Extend or reduce that age limit depending on how well your relationship-child adjusts to them, and how good your night nurse and butler are.When the pressure is on in those early years, it's normal to resent how long your partner takes to shower and brush teeth. "Does each and every molar need attention? I'm not going near you anyway!" Work's a holiday - from your kidsEspecially in the early years of introducing children to the mix, we don't realise how few days the relationship-child is all systems go. Subtract busy weekdays, which zoom by in a blur. Subtract the zombie days of sleep deprivation, when you're barely aware of those short people in your peripheral vision. Then the off-centre days thanks to hormone flux from post-partum, PMS, libido-tension.That leaves about three days a month in which the relationship-child's mind is in neutral. And those are the days you make happy, crazy decisions like "let's have another child" or "let's take a long drive together, as a family".But that other child does grow up, even if it demands years of navigating a jungle of emo-lunacy armed with just a butter knife made of hope and defiant physical attraction.Besides, they say kids take 18 years, on average, to leave you alone again. With three-day windows of bliss every so often to keep it going, who's counting?Follow Shanthini Naidoo on Twitter: @ShantzN