They, or at least all those I encountered during my stay in that relaxed and beautiful city, remain calm even in the face of outrageous traffic. They do not go around yelling strange words that might be misconstrued.They are also polite, which means when a person disturbs the pavement peace by shouting "homophone!" and beating her forehead with her palm, they look away, possibly suspecting Tourette Syndrome but not making any judgement.The Pedant Class: The quip sideTwo wide-awake readers (see letters below) will understand why I was noisily chastising myself on the streets of Catalonia. I apologise to all for the error - the rain in Spain fogged up my brain.Catalonia, by the way, is not a region in which resides only one cat, regardless of how the name sounds when spoken out loud. I saw at least five felines while I was there.A recent spate of mindless frivolity (is there any other kind of frivolity?) reminded me of both homophones and misleading names. It seems there has been yet another media frenzy (is there any other kind of frenzy?) over the nefarious night-time activities of a British club called Killing Kittens.The club is infamous, mostly because its proprietress once shared a boat, or a milkshake, or something, with the Duchess of Cambridge. Many might object to its activities, but as long as the patrons are adults and consenting, who are we to judge? What I do object to, however, is the name.What does the murder of innocent kittens (is there any other kind of kitten?) have to do with lonely rich people who pay a lot of money to see each other naked? If all they were after was a gerund that drew attention away from the club's real activities, why not plump for Bashing Beekeepers, Confiscating Casseroles or Emasculating Euphemisms?</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler There is probably some sinister reason for the name, one that hopefully has nothing to do with the abuse of small animals. Otherwise I'm sure the animal rights people would be on to these renegades. But what irked me even more than the silly name was an error involving the homophones "discreet" and "discrete"."These were very discrete guests," wrote a hotel spokesman of a Killing Kittens party held at her establishment. If that were so, neither the kittens nor the moral police would have anything to worry about, because the guests would have remained separated and locked safely in their own discrete rooms.Discrete and discreet both come from the Latin discretus, meaning "separated" or "distinct", says the Online Etymology Dictionary.A second meaning, "discerning" or "careful", developed in Medieval times. "Discrete" in the detached, individual sense, entered English in the 14th century. "Discreet" came via the Old French discret, meaning "sensible, intelligent, wise" - which of course the French always are.I have no doubt that the hotel person meant to call the Killing Kittens guests "discreet", but in the original sense of the word, which was associated with prudence, modesty and self-restraint, even that would be wrong.No doubt there are other words we can call them, but I still advise against the public bellowing of "homophone".Email your observations on words and language to degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow the author on Twitter: @deGrootS1The Pedant Class: The difference between bear and bare is a common bugbearREADER'S WORDS I enjoyed your column on homonyms. But aren t reign and rein homophones, rather than homonyms? Kathryn Lowndes I enjoy The Pedant Class. You never fail to make me laugh with your wit. However, I think you mistook a homophone for a homonym. Homophones are words that sound the same but are spelt differently and have different meanings, whereas homonyms are words that sound the same and have the same spelling but different meanings. So words such as reign, rein and rain are homophones, whereas words such as saw (the past tense of see) and saw (a cutting tool with a jagged blade) are homonyms. Roomana Bhaiyat