To people who have smart homes with sofas soft as bellies, steaming marble baths and fitted kitchens, getting away to a knotty pine cabin with French drains, polyester sheets, a temperamental gas geyser and wells of ancient damp never loses its allure.These are the serial weekenders.They have this house on Clifton beach, seagull grey with modular furniture in 50 shades of you-know-what which they can't wait to leave for the wilder shores of discomfort.It is a group activity.There is always a girl called Elmarie who is a triathlete and stands in the kitchen running on the spot eating a bowl of muesli and a boy called Jeb who is a BASE jumper and has had a near-death experience. The ability to make small talk is actually a superpowerThe topic of conversation is sportism, there's no rigged-up romance, no possibility of personal spiritual transcendence or even a bit of debased sex. There isn't time because once you've unpacked and driven to the nearest shop (two hours away) to buy matches it is time to go home.Leisure has been let loose in our times and we've had to shiver in its horror. It's one of those subjects you'd like to shove to the side of your plate.The sportswear can crack you up with dis-longing - strange shapes in a weird glaucous, unsexy blue; and then there's neon. All weekenders look as if they have had a lethal injection of Day-Glo orange. The main aim is to dismantle gender. On a weekend away you don't know whether you're getting it on with a boy, a girl or a cobra.There's sorcery in just the packing up. And the industry has not been slow in producing a slew of leisure schlock. The yacht (ever tried to fold a spinnaker?), the parachute, a motor boat (in case the yacht gets stuck), a dinghy in case the motor boat gets stuck.Fishing rods, rod wraps, feeders, bait, tackle, back leads and hooks and enough of that terrible nylon line to throttle everyone, a dune bike, and don't talk to me of helmets, flat Traxxion and Kinetic Block Out, and of course the heroic mountain bike without which no weekend would be so easily wrecked. Snap and batten, push and shove, click and clasp and crank. Knots. How traffic cops unwittingly bring the nation togetherThe atmosphere is casual funk mixed with boredom. "The most exciting thing that ever happened to me," says Stevie, a serial weekender, was seeing a naked girl in the kitchen drinking coffee. Another spends his time lighting his farts.These leisure-ready whores of sun and ski, with skins the colour of cooked quince, live in a filter bubble of Friday to Sunday. They don't even know there are other days of the week. Tuesday, where did that come from?They like going somewhere new, a small unknown place where they can break the peace with their rampaging equipment and shrilling. Real relaxation lies foundered and rotting on a beach of useless effort.If you're looking for an altered state, it would be easier to fire up a reefer in the yard - and the good news is that it might soon be legal.Follow the author of this article on Twitter: @Hellschreiber