What stunned me about this was that the conversation took place during the 2010 Fifa World Cup. As far as I could tell we had taken advantage of the fact that our world-famous criminals had gone on a mass sabbatical and suspended our usual hermit-like existence by spilling out onto the streets en masse.I was tempted to offer a very mature yet snappy comeback about the correlation between German "humour" and eating pickled cabbage but decided instead to do my bit for bilateral relations between our two nations.But that conversation has stayed with me. The stern German woman was absolutely spot-on, of course. Only a handful of South Africans have a full outdoor life. And by outdoor life I don't mean going quad biking in a fenced enclosure in the Magaliesberg. I mean walking out in the street, picnicking in public parks or cycling for leisure. Shaving your head is a hair-brained schemeOn a recent glorious Sunday morning the midgets, missus and I went cycling on the promenade of Durban's Golden Mile. I was amazed at how empty the place was, before Mrs N dryly remarked that the people were all probably at The Pavilion shopping mall. And then they descend upon the beachfront like dung beetles on a turd on New Year's Eve.When we sat down for drinks at a nearby caf we quickly picked up that most of the patrons were European tourists. And I don't blame Europeans for taking advantage of our weather. I've seen pathetically pale folks "sunbathing" in 16 C because the sun was playing peekaboo with them between the clouds in Paris.In our defence, taking advantage of public spaces in this country is not straightforward, hey. We generally tend to treat our spaces like a gigolo we caught bonking our wives.Our maxim towards waste bins seems to be, "If it's within 5m of the can, I've done my bit." Am I the only one who has noticed that while our streets are one large rubbish bin, the concentration of litter multiplies tenfold in the 5m radius around garbage cans?At San Ridge shopping centre in Carlswald, Johannesburg, I recently spotted a fellow seated on the rim of a cement rubbish bin, chatting nonchalantly to his mate while peeling an orange directly onto the floor. I had a violent urge to whip out a sword and stab him through the heart repeatedly while yelling, "This is Sparta!" like in the movie.During a Facebook discussion about littering I was dumbfounded by the number of people who responded, "Well, littering is a form of job creation, isn't it?" (No, you simple bastard! You're missing the point!) And littering is not the only form of pollution that contaminates our public spaces. 'Littering is a form of job creation, isn't it?' No, you simple bastard! You're missing the point! You're minding your own business filling up at the local Engen when you hear a faint, repetitive thudding drawing nearer and nearer until a three-door Beemer appears, with some Homo erectus at the wheel, his entire arm covered in tattoos, who is playing techno-rave garbage at 2 000 decibels so that it rattles your ribcage like there's a wild orangutan trying to escape. Or you're trying to enjoy a Sunday afternoon at your local carwash when some steroid-deformed penis-head opens his car boot and starts blaring house music from his 1 000kW subwoofers.Satan must rethink his rewards programmeMany people seem to wander about in public without any regard for how their actions affect people around them. How many times have you tried to disembark from a lift only to be met by a sea of humanity barging in without waiting for you to get out?Or my personal favourite: Einsteins parked in front of the elevator door with their shopping trolleys, having a lekker chat about the form of the Blue Bulls. And then they seem so surprised that you're going, "Excuse me, may I go past please?" In fact, that's usually considered an act of aggression.And while we're on the subject of travelling between floors, isn't it time Acsa put up "Stand on the left and pass on the right" signs at OR Tambo, King Shaka and whatnot? How many times have you been rushing to catch a flight and been running up the escalators and been blocked by two people standing abreast? And then they make you feel like Hitler issuing an unreasonable ultimatum against Poland if you ask them to let you go past.We suck at sharing communal spaces as a nation. Some folks have the Cecil John Rhodes approach to picnicking, camping and so on. They come just short of erecting electric barbed wire and border posts around the prime real estate they've laid a claim to and no correspondence shall be entered into.And don't get me started on folks who leave public taps running. Or the Non-Flushing Gang that operates in the vicinity of the public restrooms at the Vaal Dam. "Hey, I've done my business. Deal with the aftermath."Is it really too much to ask that when we all leave our houses unbathed, we ask ourselves, "How will my tripe-scented armpits affect others in a crowded lift?" Hmm?E-mail the author of this article at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or find him on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo