The more wine one drinks in summer, the easier it is to light a fire in winter (as long as it is the kind of wine that comes in bottles rather than boxes, and those bottles have corks rather than plastic stoppers or screw-tops).The verb form of "kindling" is "kindle", which comes from the Old Norse kynda and means "to light a fire". This caused much sniggering when Amazon named its electronic reading device the Kindle, with inevitable references to Fahrenheit 451, the temperature at which paper burns and the name of a novel by Ray Bradbury that is set in a future without books.What temperature does a Kindle burn at, I wonder?American graphic designer Michael Cronan, who was responsible for the name, claimed he was inspired by Voltaire, who wrote: "The instruction we find in books is like fire. We fetch it from our neighbours, kindle it at home, communicate it to others and it becomes the property of all."</img> Image: Illustration: Piet Grobler Piet Grobler Image: Illustration: Piet Grobler Piet GroblerThe Middle English form of kindle might have served Amazon just as well. In the 1200s, says the Online Etymology Dictionary, the noun kindel referred to the offspring of animals. This became kindle, which we still use for "a kindle of kittens".Kindle was also used as a verb meaning to produce or give birth. I suppose putting a lit match to a pile of corks could be described as giving birth to a fire, which would make the two forms of kindle kindred."Kindred", a noun that means "family", is not a word we use much these days, but I have noticed a resurgence of the phrase "kindred spirit", which means someone who feels the same way about things as you do.I first encountered this matey expression in Anne of Green Gables, LM Montgomery's story of a Nova Scotian orphan with wild red hair and an even wilder imagination.This intricate child, who would much rather have been called Cordelia ("but if you call me Anne, please call me Anne with an 'e'") was constantly in search of kindred spirits. In her world, a kindred spirit was anyone who didn't laugh at her fondness for big words and grave pronouncements.The Pedant Class: Down with homonym-phobesThere are many immortal Ann(e) quotes, chief among them: "It is ever so much easier to be good if your clothes are fashionable." My favourite, however, is: "Kindred spirits are not so scarce as I used to think. It's splendid to find out there are so many of them in the world."Anne might have balked at the substitution of a Kindle for a book of verse, but I am quite sure she would have loved the internet for its ability to deliver to us kindred spirits from Hyperborean places.I found one this week in the form of Gina Barreca, an English professor at the University of Connecticut, who published an essay on the Courant.com site about words she thinks should be banned. On her list are "disrupt", "cohort", "synergy", "lifestyle", "wheelhouse", "iconic", "curated", "artisanal", "vocalise" and "impactful".I don't agree with all her choices. "Lifestyle" (or LS, as we prefer to think of it) is the name of this magazine, so we can't throw that out. I have no beef with "wheelhouse" either (through what else could the face of Spike Milligan's helmsman shine white?), so perhaps Barreca and I are only half-kindred spirits, but I cheered when she wrote "Why use 'utilise' when you can use 'use'?" and: "If you love language, treat it with respect, honour and intimacy. Play with it, but never treat it lightly."To all the Annes and Ginas out there, may your kindling be dry and your spirits kindred.