Imagine the book I was going to author, titled Conversations from the World Yonder. I was rudely yanked out of my fantasy of a global book tour by a second text, apologising and explaining that the author of the text was the younger brother of the deceased, using his phone.I guess the deceased had loaded plenty of airtime before kicking the bucket. So I was forced to reluctantly delete the response I had been drafting, which read something like, "Hey there. How's death treatin' you over there? Are you on the wailing and gnashing-of-teeth side of things or the prayin' and harp-playin' side?"I think it is incredible just how widespread the belief in a life hereafter is, despite the fact that there is zero evidence for it. About six billion humans out of seven billion believe in some form or other of existence after they draw their last breath.If we know anything about human nature, it is that there are hopeless snitches among us. If there were a world beyond the grave, there would be at least one Julian Assange of the afterlife who created a Twitter profile so he could report back, 140 characters at a time: "OMG! That totally awkward moment when Verwoerd suffers from black-chick FOMO &amp; hooks up with Brenda Fassie. LOL!" If there were a world beyond the grave, there'd be an Assange of the afterlife, reporting back It stands to reason that if anyone could somehow develop a product that guaranteed life after death, Carlos Slim, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would be coming to that individual for loans in no time.If everything I've heard about life after death is true, there are two sides up there in the sky after we die: heaven and hell.Heaven is the place to which the dearly departed go if they were generous with their tithing during Sunday service collections, did a lot of praying and never lied to SARS on their tax returns while they were alive.Those who drank too much beer, coveted their brothers' wives and listened to satanic tunes - such as Hotel California by The Eagles - they are sent to hell, where they will burn in the fire and sulphur of Hades for all eternity.Living in SA is the ultimate extreme sportYes, apparently if you play the first verse of that Eagles song backwards you will hear, "Yes, Satan organised his own religion."Don't ask me why anyone plays music backwards, just take my word for it.Having said that, I have always struggled to make sense of the whole hell situation. If the devil is all for people doing evil, it seems a bit counterproductive for him to burn the evildoers after they die, isn't it? Surely that discourages evildoing? Ag, my mortal human brain is too weak and limited to understand these deep mysteries.From what I've heard, after that long, one-way flight to either heaven or hell, we will all be met by a bearded St Peter at the divine customs desk known as the Pearly Gates.He stands there with a file containing a spreadsheet with "debit" and "credit" columns of one's life. If the debit column, which lists one's sins, exceeds the credit, jeez, I don't know what to tell you.Apparently, after the tenderpreneur who used public money to build hundreds of toilets in empty veld in Mpumalanga dies, he approaches the Pearly Gates with trepidation. St Peter looks at his file and finds that the credit column is empty and says, "Dude, it says here you did no good at all. Anything to declare?" After much head scratching, the tenderpreneur triumphantly announces, "A-ha! Once, as I stepped out of my Bentley, I tossed a R5 coin at a beggar."Are druglords the offspring of the War On Drugs?A visibly disgusted St Peter turns to the holy treasurer-general and says, " Matewu, nika lomgodoyi i-half tiger yayo uyisuse phambi kwamehlo ami! " (Yes, St Peter is multilingual and speaks Zulu in King Goodwill Zwelithini' s accent.) Translation: "St Matthew, give this dog his R5 and remove him from my sight!" True story.Another sinner apparently arrived at the Gates and, as St Peter was about to send him to hell, produced a cockerel from underneath his garb, at which point Pete groaned audibly at the reminder of his three denials before the cock crowed on that fateful Easter weekend.My favourite hell story is about the Rastafarian who is sent to hell and, as he's being driven to his camp, sees hectare upon hectare of fields of da holy herb and gets excited. When he gets there, he finds millions of sinners sitting with sad faces, holding blunts in their hands. When he asks why all the long faces when there's so much weed, one guy asks him, "I don't suppose you brought a lighter with you, smart arse?"I guess what I'm saying is: I have no way of knowing whether there is life after death. And this is why I'm hedging my bets and will insist that I'm buried with a cockerel when I die.Find Ngcobo on twitter @NdumisoNgcobo, or e-mail ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za