"Absolutely," he said into his phone from a Fancourt fairway on Friday. "Ultimately that's where you want to end up."What's on at Eden Gardens today? The 60th match of this year's Indian Premier League (IPL), otherwise known as the final.Since April 8 - 47 days ago - eight teams have been battling it out to stay alive. Only three of those days have not featured a match, 15 days have been crammed with two games each, and eight were played from May 1 to 4. That's an awful lot of Danny Morrison.And now there are just two sides in it: Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings, a match made not in Eden, but in a marketing heaven where MS Dhoni and Lasith Malinga are unlikely archangels.</img>Lasith Malinga of the Mumbai Indians smiles on October 22, 2012 during a Champions League T20 (CLT20) match Sydney Sixers vs Mumbai Indians at Sahara Stadium Kingsmead in Durban. Image: AFP PHOTO / STRLasith Malinga of the Mumbai Indians smiles on October 22, 2012 during a Champions League T20 (CLT20) match Sydney Sixers vs Mumbai Indians at Sahara Stadium Kingsmead in Durban. Image: AFP PHOTO / STRWould that Chennai's Kyle Abbott embarrasses the cynical cowards who kept him out of the World Cup semifinal and haven't had the balls to accept the blame. Not likely: Abbott is among the 50 or so players who have seen no game time in the tournament.Cricket's new world, then, is brutal as well as brave. Walter, the Titans' head coach, knows this too well having served as the fielding and conditioning coach for Delhi Daredevils, who finished second from bottom despite calling Gary Kirsten their resident guru-in-chief.That happened at least partly because the IPL, now in its eighth edition, but once the rebellious love child of player greed and Indian hunger for any reasonable facsimile of cricket, is growing up."The competition is definitely stronger and teams are more closely matched," Walter said. "There is a hell of a lot of stats analysis and understanding of the opposition. That's not new to cricket, but it is quite new in Indian cricket. And while wickets have become better in India the grounds are still small. So there are no gimme games."Does that make the IPL another example of the last drop of the unpredictable - fun, in another word - being wrung out of the game? Fifty-over cricket needed the 2015 World Cup to bring it back from that brink. In franchise cricket opponents are almost contemptibly familiar with each others' every move."No, the IPL is a great tournament," Walter said. "It's the perfect platform for players to grow their game and learn how to play under pressure."Like Fancourt. And not.