The first wonderful thing about a greenhouse is that it makes growing a lot easier - for both plants and gardeners. The second wonderful thing is that it's a perfect refuge from the cares of the world. Put it down to a combination of calm seclusion and ticking energy that germinates, roots, unfurls; you can almost hear the plants growing.A greenhouse can be as simple or as complicated as you need it to be. It depends on your local climate and the kind of plants you want to grow. Plant hobbyists and dedicated potterers have always loved them, but now greenhouses are also becoming a must-have for the new generation of veggie gardeners, especially if they are growing their own from seed.Short on space? Plant veg in your flower bedsThe basic idea is to protect plants from wind, harsh sunlight and extremes of heat and cold. Even a simple shelter of poles and shade cloth or fibreglass can provide basic protection, which may be all that you and your plants require. And with a little imagination a home-built structure like this can be attractive as well as practical.Ready-made greenhouses come in various materials and sizes and allow for easier control of air flow and temperature. The traditional glass greenhouses of Europe are generally too hot for SA, so those available here usually have steel, aluminium or resin frames enclosed with food-grade plastic sheeting or polycarbonate panels, which diffuse the sunlight. The smallest is about 2mx2m, but if you have no garden don't despair. There are also mini greenhouses (rather like cupboards) that will fit on a terrace or balcony, and which you can assemble yourself.Kitting out the interior to maximise the space is important. Consider specially designed fittings and accessories such as brackets, wall troughs and stepped racks of shelves that allow for maximum light exposure on all levels. You definitely need a work table. And do allow space for a chair...TIPS FOR INSTALLING A GREENHOUSE Siting is important and depends on what you grow and the amount of light required. An east- or north-facing situation is good. Easy access to electricity and water is helpful. Most greenhouses come with a basic misting system and irrigation systems are also available. Site drainage should be good. Most greenhouses have special foundation frames for firm anchorage. Avoid a concrete floor; gravel and a central pallet path work well. Good ventilation is essential to prevent excess humidity and disease. You may need extra shade in summer with shade cloth netting over the structure.For more information visit urbanfreedom.co.za and easygreenhouses.co.za.