You might, of course, call her Margaret, or Rose, or Prudence, depending on her given name.Mum's the word today (or word du jour, if you prefer maman) because today is the day when florists and chocolatiers sell out to a jingling tidal wave of mother love.Regardless of how you feel about all this, mum can't be the word if you want to open your mouth to wish yours a happy day, or order her a glass of pink wine at an overbooked restaurant. That's because "mum's the word" - usually mumbled softly with a finger held discreetly to the lips - means: "Keep your mouth shut."The Pedant Class: Down with homonym-phobesAbbreviations for "mother" are commonly held to derive from sweetly meaningless onomatopoeic sounds hummed by babies. Among gardeners, "mums" is also a pet name for chrysanthemums. Some argue that this is where the titular form of "mum" originated, because the mum is a motherly sort of flower.But back to keeping mum. Where should one keep her? Some years ago there was outrage over a food advertisement in which an Italian mamma was trundled out of the cupboard whenever her services were required in the kitchen, after which she would be stored away again until the next time.Presumably she was quiet in the dark closet, so "keeping mum" contained both meanings, as it did in the Australian newspaper headline, "Presidential candidate keeps mum on cocaine", quoted on the website worldwidewords.org. Another site, wisegeek.com, used the more generic "Politician keeps mum on drugs" to illustrate the various ways in which mum can keep us in stitches.According to the wise geek, whoever he or she might be, the phrase "keeping mum" dates to the 14th century. No one seems entirely sure how it sprang into being, however. It is an odd saying, given that mothers are not generally synonymous with silence.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet GroblerAs the keeping of mum became popular in speech, acting troupes took to staging silent plays called "mummeries". One might imagine that the word "mime" owes something to these mummers, but it does not. It comes from the Greek mimos, meaning an imitator, or mimeisthai, to imitate, and was first used in English in the 1600s.Samuel Johnson's dictionary included a definition for mime: "A buffoon who practises gesticulations." (Dr Johnson's entry for "mother" contained nine definitions. No4 was: "That which requires reverence and obedience.")"Keeping schtum" is a phrase that means the same thing as "keeping mum", and finding the right place to store a schtum is just as fraught with difficulty. The Phrase Finder (phrases.org.uk) tells us that schtum is not a Yiddish word, although it sounds like one. It has far more murky origins among the British criminal classes of the 1950s.Both keeping mum and keeping schtum come with the implication that opening your mouth is likely to get you into trouble, which might go some way towards explaining how a mother got involved in the first place.I can never see the word "mum" without being reminded of Car n Boshoff, who has just retired after many years as one of this newspaper's vigilant proofreaders. Whenever she spotted the word "mum", Car n would use her famous red pen to suggest "mom" as the more common South African abbreviation. Writers who loved their mums would momble in complaint, but they all bowed eventually to her optimom skills and changed mum to mom. In her honour, I would like to suggest that today we pay tribute to mothers large and small - maximoms and minimoms - with a bouquet of chrysanthemoms.E-mail your observations on words and language to degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow the author on Twitter: @deGrootS1