I got halfway through writing a review of The Bone Clocks, feeling all pleased with how sassy and cutting I was being, before I remembered that I'd read only the back cover.I don't know what my problem is, only that it's getting worse. Is it a multigenerational family saga, spanning two continents? Get out of here. Does it have a bit where a woman goes swimming and thinks the whole time about how easy it would be, how peaceful, to just slip under the waves forever? Please. Does it have a bit where a cat talks?Anything where a man is in love with a tormented cello-playing woman in a ruined European city? Is she always shaving her head and crying at inexplicable moments and yet still, still he loves her with a wordless passion? Let me stop you right there.Do any of the characters work in advertising and have a few things to say about that? Is there a part where a compelling outsider walks through a city and says a million things about the practice of everyday life? I bet you I hate it. I don't even pretend to try. I abandon books with a song in my heart I ditched 'The English Patient' 30 pages in, and then read the Wikipedia entry in case I had missed any good twists I used to make more of an effort. I would sit with a Murakami, or an Atwood, or The Master and Margarita, and think positive thoughts: this time it will be different. I would persist, past where a man is making spaghetti so much, or a woman is talking about assigned identity for many thousands of pages. I would take a really decent stab at finishing, and feel guilty when I failed.Now, I don't even pretend to try. I abandon books with a song in my heart. I ditched The English Patient 30 pages in, and then read the Wikipedia entry in case I had missed any good twists. I left Midnight's Children on the bus. I have bought and discarded three separate copies of Moby Dick. Also every single word Proust ever wrote. Flaubert, of course. All of Henry James, and most of Dostoevsky. All of Virginia Woolf.A 'Soccer World Cup approach' to tackling SA's literacy issuesThere's nothing I won't give up on. I do not limit myself to the classics, either. I gave up on Bad Feminist before it was even written. I abandoned Knausgaard before he was even born.I can't really continue in this fashion. The whole point of my personality is that I love to read. It's the main thing I have going for me. Besides that, this world is a vale of tears. The last thing anyone needs is more intolerance. I need to be more kindly and forgiving. If only giving up on books wasn't such a reliably life-affirming joy. If only it didn't make me feel like an actual king.