I'm surprised they only peg it for 35 years from now. I was having pretty robotic sex with this one guy I met online as far back as 2009.There are already a bunch of sex dolls on the market and they're becoming more sophisticated by the year as scientists figure out how to build them with artificial intelligence and skin that feels real. The robotics industry is obsessed with getting it right. Can you blame them? Every person who works for the company that figures it out first will retire early, with several yachts.One of the tech companies in the running is developing a sex robot named Roxxxy, which they say will soon be a self-learning machine. It will talk to its owner, learn his likes, dislikes, how he takes his tea. Roxxxy 1.0, which has none of these features yet, already sells for around $7000 and has thousands of pre-orders. He thinks a doll with the ability to make sex noises and talk back to him is creepy. Or maybe he's just saying that What did we think was going to happen? The one thing 99% of nerdy guys are really good at is making robots, and the one thing 99% of nerdy guys are really crap at is meeting women they can have sex with. This was bound to happen.Of course not everyone is racing out to put their names on a waiting list for a walking, talking vagina. Female Viagra: the down side of getting it upAn international campaign has been launched, calling on governments to ban development of robots for sex. Campaigners are concerned these machines reinforce gender stereotypes, and further entrench the belief among some men that relationships need be nothing more than physical.One of the CEOs who is set to make a gabillion if his company brings out the perfect robot girlfriend first is quick to point out that these dolls aren't supposed to be replacements for having a wife or a girlfriend, but are rather a solution for people who are between relationships or who have lost a partner. I'm so glad he cleared that up.At first glance I wasn't really bothered by the thought of a bunch of intelligent sex robots named Suxzy or Fitbit or Bambi 6.0 coming onto the dating scene. After all, isn't a sex robot just a super high-tech sex toy with a bunch of extra bits? And sex toys have been around forever.Surprisingly, the guy I'm dating feels differently. He is all for the ban. He thinks a doll with the ability to make sex noises and talk back to him is creepy. Or maybe he's just saying that to my face, and has two under his bed at home.My worry is that there are already so many women and not enough eligible (read: straight) guys on the dating scene. And if guys don't have to talk to her, call her back, or take her to dinner, and she'll still put out for them, I reckon we human women won't stand a chance.Follow the writer on twitter @paigen or email her at amillionmilesfromnormal@gmail.com