1. THE SUBTLE WAY A slight wash of pastel eyeshadow, a faint glimmer of lip gloss and a single stroke of mascara are essential to this look. Some of the best versions which appeared on international runways included Christian Dior's (pictured above) - a sweep of light pink eyeshadow on eyelids and cheeks - and Gucci's, which consisted of pink lips. Get the look: Gosh Eyelight Trio in Fairytale, R135, for three variants of pink in one palette. Gosh Forever Lip Shine in Flirty Dreams, R105, adds a light wash of colour and moisture. Bobbi Brown Lip Balm, R240, keeps lips feeling moisturised. Benefit Benetint Rose-Tinted Lip and Cheek Stain, R385. The more you apply, the more intense the hue. 2. '90S REVIVAL Remember when full makeup looks involved smudging black kohl liner into eye waterlines and not much else? This super-simple technique was used by Chlo (see above), Rochas and Emilio Pucci.Big, bushy brows have also become a seasonal staple - don't be shy to fill yours in with a powder or pencil. Spring makeup trends to steal from the catwalk Get the look: Clarins Crayon Kh l Eye Pencil in 01 Intense Black, R280, has a nifty smudging brush at the back end of the pencil. Wet n Wild Color Icon Brow Pencil, R48, comes with a comb. Maybelline Brow Drama in Dark Brown, R100, has a ball brush to expertly grab hairs. Essence Smokey 2 in 1 Kh l Liner, R48, is highly pigmented and easy to apply. Wet n Wild Color Icon Brow Shaper, R48, a beeswax blend that tames eyebrows. 3. COLOUR POP There's no time like the summery seasons to put fun colours on eyelids, lips or cheeks. Painterly turquoise and yellow smeared across eyelids at Missoni's shows caught our eye and Chanel's use of colour was reminiscent of a pair of aviator sunglasses, as befitting the Chanel's airlines theme in Paris. Use a gel eyeliner for a sweep of indigo or cobalt blue on upper lids. And you won't go wrong with vivid red lips with a modern matte texture, as seen at Oscar de la Renta. Pout perfection: Makeup tips for bold lips Get the look: MAC TechnaKohl Liner in Skyscape, R205. The thin nib is ideal for precise application. Chanel Les 4 Ombres Tiss Jazz, R775. This was one of the compacts used at Paris Fashion Week. Bobbi Brown Sequin Shimmer Brick Eye Palette, R495, from the limited-edition Starry Nights Collection launches next in November 2015. Inglot AMC Eyeliner Gel in cobalt, R199. Apply on eyelids, close to the lash line, for a bold blue line.