1. Ginger &amp; garlic-marinated drumsticks with coconut milk &amp; honey (Pictured above.)Serves: 4 to 6Prep time: 10 minutesMarinating time: 6 to 24 hoursBraaiing time: 40 to 50 minutesGinger &amp; garlic marinade:10-cm piece of fresh ginger, peeled and cut into thin slices10 garlic cloves, peeled1 punnet loosely packed fresh coriander leaves and tender stems1 can (400 ml) coconut milk, stirred cup light soy sauce4 tablespoons honeyOther ingredients:12 large chicken drumsticks, trimmed of excess fat and skin10 Best South African Summer Braai Recipes for Heritage DayMethod:1) To make the marinade, combine the ginger, garlic and coriander in the bowl of a food processor fitted with a metal blade. Process until the ingredients are finely chopped. Transfer to a large bowl and add the remaining marinade ingredients. Mix well. Add the drumsticks and rub the marinade into all sides with your hands. Cover the bowl and refrigerate for 6 24 hours.2) Prepare the braai for indirect cooking over medium heat 180 230 C (350 450 F).3) Remove the drumsticks from the bowl and discard the marinade. Brush the cooking grates clean. Cook the drumsticks over indirect medium heat, with the lid closed as much as possible, until the juices run clear and the meat is no longer pink at the bone, 40 50 minutes, turning once or twice. Remove from the braai and leave to rest for 3 5 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.Tip: You can marinate the drumsticks in one or two large resealable plastic bags. Chicken &amp; Peach Kebabs with Blackberry Sauce </img>Chicken & peach kebabs with blackberry sauce as featured in Weber s Chicken Best Braai Recipes by Jamie Purviance (Struik Lifestyle). Image: SuppliedChicken & peach kebabs with blackberry sauce as featured in Weber s Chicken Best Braai Recipes by Jamie Purviance (Struik Lifestyle). Image: SuppliedServes: 4Prep time: 25 minutesBraaiing time: 8 to 10 minutesSpecial equipment: metal or bamboo skewers (if using bamboo, soak in water for at least 30 minutes)Blackberry sauce:180 grams fresh blackberries2 tablespoons sugar1 tablespoon unsalted butter1 tablespoon lemon juice1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger1 teaspoon very finely chopped garlicCoarse sea saltGround black pepperKebabs:3 large boneless, skinless chicken breasts2 firm but ripe firm-fleshed peaches or nectarines3 tablespoons vegetable oil1 teaspoon coarse sea salt teaspoon ground allspice teaspoon ground black pepper5 gourmet burger recipes to braai forMethod:1) To make the blackberry sauce, combine the blackberries, sugar, butter, lemon juice, ginger and garlic in a small saucepan. Cook over medium heat until the berries break down, stirring often and mashing the berries with back of a wooden spoon until the juices begin to thicken, 5 7 minutes. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a small glass or stainless steel bowl, pressing on the solids in the sieve to extract the liquid. Discard the remaining solids. Season with salt and pepper.2) Prepare the braai for direct cooking over medium heat 180 230 C (350 450 F).3) To make the kebabs, cut each chicken breast in half lengthways and then cut each half crossways into 2 3cm pieces. Cut the peaches into eighths. Combine the chicken and peaches in a large bowl. Add the oil, salt, allspice and pepper. Mix gently to coat the ingredients evenly. Thread the chicken and peaches alternately onto the skewers.4) Brush the cooking grates clean. Braai the kebabs over direct medium heat, with the lid closed as much as possible, until the meat is firm to the touch and opaque all the way to the centre, 8 10 minutes, turning two or three times. Remove from the braai and spoon the sauce over the top. Serve warm.Tip: Use the back of a spoon to push through a sieve as much of the precious blackberry sauce as you can. Philly-style steak sandwiches with braaied onions &amp; provolone </img>Philly-style steak sandwiches with braaied onions & provolone as featured in Weber Steak s Best Braai Recipes by Jamie Purviance (Struik Lifestyle). Image: SuppliedPhilly-style steak sandwiches with braaied onions & provolone as featured in Weber Steak s Best Braai Recipes by Jamie Purviance (Struik Lifestyle). Image: SuppliedServes: 4Prep time: 20 minutesBraaiing time: 11 to 13 minutesSpecial equipment: perforated grill panIngredients:1 large onion, thinly sliced1 red pepper, thinly sliced1 yellow pepper, thinly sliced2 garlic cloves, peeled and thinly sliced2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil1 teaspoon dried origanumCoarse sea saltGround black pepper2 boneless rib-eye steaks, each about 240 gramsand 2.5 cm thick, trimmed of excess fatExtra-virgin olive oil4 ciabatta rolls, split1 garlic clove, peeled8 thin slices provolone cheese7 mistakes you're probably making when cooking steak - & how to fix them!Method:1) Prepare the braai for direct cooking over high heat 230 290 C (450 550 F) and preheat the grill pan.2) In a large bowl combine the onion, peppers, garlic, oil, and origanum. Season with salt and pepper and toss to coat evenly. Spread the vegetables on the grill pan in a single layer. Cook over direct high heat, with the lid closed as much as possible, until they start to brown and are tender, about 6 minutes, stirring occasionally. Transfer to a medium bowl.3) Cut the steaks lengthways into thin slices. Place the slices in a medium bowl, add just enough oil to coat them lightly, then season with salt and pepper and toss to coat. Cook the steak slices on the grill pan over direct high heat, with the lid closed as much as possible, until the meat begins to curl and brown, 4 6 minutes, turning occasionally. Wearing oven gloves or barbecue mitts, remove the pan from the braai and place it on a heatproof surface.4) Brush the cooking grates clean. Lightly brush the cut sides of the rolls with olive oil and braai them over direct high heat until toasted, 30 seconds to 1 minute. Gently rub the garlic onto the toasted rolls.5) Build the sandwiches with cheese, meat, onions and peppers. Serve warm.Tip: To cut the meat easily into thin slices, firm it up first by wrapping it in clingfilm and placing it into the freezer for about 30 minutes.From a tempting array of delicious recipes to handy tips, Weber s Steak Best Braai Recipes is a straightforward guide to mastering the art of cooking the perfect steak. While Weber s Chicken Best Braai Recipes will help you take the guesswork out of braaiing poultry with all sorts of scrumptious recipes and expert tips. Both books are by master griller Jamie Purviance and are published by Struik Lifestyle; they retail for R170 each.