There was once a rumour that the hero of Douglas Adams's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy was supposed to be called Stuart, or Stu for short. Stu Dent would surely be a person destined to cause havoc. Perhaps Adams felt it was too obvious a name, so he settled on Arthur.It is unfortunate that the word "student" lends itself to being pronounced in a sneery, patronising kind of way ("Oh, you're a steeew-dent"). My mother was most concerned that my taking on of the student label would cause instant behavioural disintegration. ("You're there to study, young lady. You burn one flag and I'm taking you out." It didn't work.) How to punish those who commit crimes against languageStudents, however, are not to be sneered at. They are important, and despite what we might say about their methods, at least they take their causes seriously. Incidentally, many readers of this column cannot bear the officious term "learner". I agree with them. We are all learners, aren't we? We learn something new every day, even if it's just the date. Far better to call those who attend school "scholars" and those who attend tertiary institutions "students".I am rather fond of the word "incidentally". The Online Etymology Dictionary says "incident" comes from the Latin incidere (to happen). In 15th-century English it became "something which occurs casually in connection with something else" (in other words, "by the way"). In 1913, an incident also became "an event that might trigger a crisis".Today, "incident" is used as a euphemism for crime. It should not, incidentally, be confused with "incidence", which is the number of times an incident occurs, not an incident itself."Dent" on its own is an interesting word. It comes from the Middle English dint, and originally meant a strike or blow. "He stole my codpiece and so I aimed a dent at him."A century or so later, "dent" began to be associated with a depression - not the emotional sort but the concave sort dealt with by panelbeaters and dermatologists. A depression of this ilk is quite likely to cause the other kind of depression, so it is entirely appropriate that it carries both meanings. How to tell an elf from a pixieThe evolution of "dent", says the Online Etymology Dictionary, was influenced by the word "indent" (to make notches), which comes from the Medieval Latin indentare, meaning "to furnish with teeth". The root of dent, indent and dental is dentis - a tooth.Disciples of Italian cooking who have not succumbed to the dreaded Banting virus will be familiar with the culinary term al dente. Literally meaning "to the tooth", it describes pasta which is perfectly prepared, still needing a bit of chewing as opposed to boiled into soggy mush.Those who spend more time in the garden than in the kitchen might know that the dandelion flower gets its name from the Middle French dent de lion, a lion's tooth. This is because of its jagged leaves, not because lions were thought to have round yellow gnashers (although, as there were not too many lions wandering around in France, we can't be sure).Incidentally, dandelion flowers are edible and apparently not unpleasant when added to salads. Even more incidentally, the dandelion has diuretic properties, which explains why in Middle English the plant was commonly known as "piss-a-bed".Not all words containing "dent" have associations with dentists and dentistry. "Ardent" (which originally referred to strong alcoholic spirits) is from the Latin ardere (to burn). "Accident" is from accidere (to happen) and "student" is from studiare (to study). But that doesn't mean students don't have teeth.