Makes: 1 CakeDifficulty: Some effort, 2 hoursMeringue discs:2 cups ground almonds40g (1/3 cup) cornflour120g (1 cup) caster sugar7 egg whitesButtercream:120g (1 cup) caster sugar30ml (2 tbsp) water5ml (1 tsp) orange blossom water6 egg yolksZest of 2 oranges450g unsalted butter, diced, at room temperatureCandied orange peel:Finely sliced rind (pith removed) of 2 oranges60g ( cup) caster sugar, plus extra for dusting100ml waterDecoration:Rose petals1 egg white30g ( cup) caster sugar1 cup flaked almonds, toasted Great SA bakes: Gavin's orange, pistachio & almond tray bakeMethod:1) For the meringue discs, preheat the oven to 170 C. Line 3 baking trays with baking paper. Mark each with a 20cm circle. In a bowl, combine the ground almonds, cornflour and a third of the caster sugar. Mix and set aside. Using an electric mixer, beat egg whites until they form soft peaks. Gradually add the remaining caster sugar and continue beating until thick. Fold the almond mixture into the egg white mixture and spoon into a piping bag with a 2.5cm plain nozzle. Starting from the centre, pipe a disc of meringue mixture onto each circle on the 3 baking trays. Bake for 25 minutes, until pale and golden. Cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes before loosening meringue from paper with a large spatula.2) For the buttercream, boil caster sugar and water in a saucepan until syrupy. Remove from heat and stir in orange blossom water. In a bowl, whisk egg yolks and zest to ribbon stage. Whisk syrup into egg mixture until thick and light. Whisk in butter, a little at a time, until smooth. Refrigerate until firm.3) For the candied orange peel, place orange rind in a saucepan with sugar and water. Boil until syrupy. Lift the rind out onto a piece of baking paper and roll in extra caster sugar.4) Brush rose petals with egg white and lightly dust with caster sugar to crystalise.5) To assemble, place one meringue disc on a platter. Pipe on a layer of buttercream. Repeat for 2 more layers, then cover top and sides with buttercream. Coat the sides with toasted almond flakes around the side of the cake. Decorate top of cake with orange peel and rose petals.'The Great South African Bake Off' is on Tuesdays at 8pm on BBC Lifestyle (DStv channel 174).