SCRUB It's a good idea to prep skin before any kind of treatment. A good exfoliator polishes and sloughs off dead cells and helps with circulation. We're big fans of dry brushing, too - use a natural textured brush, sweep over dry skin towards lymph glands and hop in the shower afterwards to rinse. Beauty buys to try: Clarins Tonic Body Polisher, R460, contains energising essential oils such as mint. The Body Shop Cactus Brush, R175, has a long handle to get to hard-to-reach spots. TREAT According to Clarins Research, cellulite is explained as follows: "A woman's body is covered in fatty tissue, which is naturally larger in volume on hips and thighs. Adipocytes, the cells that store these fats, are grouped together in lobules - vertically arranged pockets separated from each other by rigid fibrous walls. When there is excessive storage of fats, the volume of adipocytes and lobules increases. The non-extensible fibrous walls push on it. This causes the 'spongy' aspect of the skin surface which is characteristic of cellulite."If you want to minimise the appearance of cellulite, massaging gets blood circulating. Products with ingredients that enhance microcirculation also work well to stimulate the lymph, and a product that smooths skin texture as well as smells nice is a bonus. Active ingredients to look out for include caffeine, which is known for its microcirculation benefits. Also, apply your treatment in firm upward and circular motions for the best results. How to boost the power of your beauty sleepBeauty buys to try: Mio Skin Tight, R790, contains caffeine to stimulate skin and leave it feeling velvety and elastic. Clarins Body Lift Cellulite Control, R510, targets early and stubborn cellulite. The gel firms skin and contours plus its cool to the touch and leaves skin feeling refreshed. Ingredients such as celosia, a type of plant, help slow down cellulite formation and the draining effect of escine helps with water retention. Elemis Cellutox Active Body Oil, R695, contains sea buckthorn, sea fennel, lemon and juniper essential oils for a stimulating body detox. Filorga Detox Body Treatment, R550, helps combat water retention, and glycolic acid exfoliates the skin. Comfort Zone Body Strategist Cream Gel, R840, is made using up to 98% natural ingredients. MOISTURE Hydrated skin is happy skin. A good moisturiser adds lustre and if your skin looks a bit dull post-winter, add liquid shimmer to your regular moisturiser for some sheen. For pasty-looking skin, self-tanners help reduce the look of lumps and bumps. Beauty buys to try: The Body Shop Thai Lemongrass Massage Oil, R190, is revitalising. L'Occitane Youthful Body Velvet Serum, R660, and L'Occitane Youthful Body Velvet Balm, R710, contain almond native cells and target various signs of ageing skin such as slackening. Nuxe Huile Prodigieuse Or Multi-Purpose Dry Oil Face, Body, Hair, R295, smells like frangipanis, gives skin a golden glow and leaves it feeling moisturised. MAC Strobe Cream, R410. The ultimate shimmer product. Vita Liberata 2 - 3 Week Tan Mousse, R965, lasts for two to three weeks and dries quickly.