He wore a different hat every day; some of them sent me right off my chump. One looked like a scotch egg, another like a bit of cathedral vaulting, and I could never get a real grip on his hair. I know there was a lot of it and let loose it might have mugging qualities. There was one long piece that hung down his back like a string, which a boy sitting behind him flick-knifed. There was a fight. "The first time blood has run in this library," said the librarian.One day he wore ballet tights, ink-splattered takkies and a vintage tuxedo.I understood his life outside the research library might be of concern. How to sneak into business classSometimes we went out for a snack. He was a vegan (damn) but he said starting on a salad was like stepping into a cold sea. He liked low-slung shoes on women, he said, because each little toe looked like a cleavage. We had nothing much in common. Like me he didn't know the taal of self-branding. There was one thing we both hated: photographs. "They're called images now," he laughed. "And do you know what writing is called? Content."He had once worked as a photographer's assistant. "Photographers," he said, "are the new anointed. Once we had to photograph the president of a country and the photographer said to me, 'Ask him if he's got a mink hat.' That was bad enough. Then he said, 'I'm thinking zoo, cages, chandeliers.' In the end he made the president strip to the waist and hang from a light bulb.""It reveals vulnerability, don't you think?" said the photographer about the picture.Ah, and my friend and I could talk deep. "Photography," he said, "endows the most perfunctory deed with purpose and power." That was true enough. My own byline picture was sordid with perfection; in reality I was a crone. Whites are to blame for the sad state of SA's book industryHe asked me to visit his apartment right downtown, too down, really, for crones with bad eyesight, but I went. Crones don't often get dates. He said he would make nasi goreng. I bought black lipstick from the life-threatening MAC counter where the assistant asked, "What's this?" as she scrubbed away at a wrinkle. I said: "It's permanent."She was surrounded by accoutrements of fake productivity, brushes, blushers, an arsenal of fauxductivity, things to trick your brain.Throughout the day I imagined him making nasi goreng, which takes time and is disgusting. Right now he could be grinding fresh ginger root, I thought, as I applied yet another layer of black lipstick. I hoped he wouldn't think it some ironic racist joke; he was blackish himself. I wore the peephole shoes and black varnished my toenails.On his apartment stairs there were two braids that entwined like centipedes. I knocked. There was no one home. "He was kicked out yesterday," said the man next door, "with his swanky underwear and all."