1. EMILY WEISSEmily Weiss is an ex Vogue US alumni and her site, Intothegloss.com, represents the cr me de la cr me of accurate and hilariously poignant beauty blogging. We re jealous of every super-cool contributor and love this blog s no-nonsense approach to beauty perfect for all of us real girls.If you re a die-hard beauty fan, be sure to read the comments section. Here you ll find serious debates about everything from waxing it all off to whether the need to use a toner is as much of a myth as the existence of unicorns.A photo posted by Into The Gloss (@intothegloss) on Sep 14, 2015 at 6:48am PDTA photo posted by Into The Gloss (@intothegloss) on Sep 14, 2015 at 6:48am PDT2. CHANTELLE BESTERBeat the clock: 5 anti-ageing ingredients that actually workChantelle Bester of Notanotherpoppie is a trained beauty therapist so you can bet she knows the difference between retinol and retinyl palmitate. This South African s not shy to tell it like it is and offers educated insight (hooray!) into which products worked for her and which ones she found to be disappointing.Bester also has a Youtube channel where she uploads makeup tutorials and vlogs about her best buys, empties (products she s just finished) and more.5MINUTE3. &amp; 4. NIKISHA BRUNSON AND CIPRIANA QUANNNikisha Brunson and Cipriana Quann s US blog, urbanbushbabes.com, covers everything from music to interior design. Both of these bloggers have the most incredible locks, so it s not surprising there s also an awesome section dedicated to natural hair expect tips, plenty of inspiration and DIY tutorials that ll teach you to whip up your own all-natural beauty products at home.Fun fact, Quann has a twin sister called TK (both pictured below) who s also a contributor to the blog.A photo posted by urbanbushbabes (@urbanbushbabes) on Aug 3, 2015 at 9:06pm PDTA photo posted by urbanbushbabes (@urbanbushbabes) on Aug 3, 2015 at 9:06pm PDT8 of the chicest fashionistas to follow on InstagramA photo posted by urbanbushbabes (@urbanbushbabes) on Aug 23, 2015 at 2:05pm PDTA photo posted by urbanbushbabes (@urbanbushbabes) on Aug 23, 2015 at 2:05pm PDT5. ZAAHIRAH BHAMJEEZaahirah Bhamjee of completedisbelief.com has been blogging for over a decade. This diminutive Joburger has a knack for covering everything from travel to fashion and beauty is one of her strong suits.Along with sharing beauty news, reviews and advice, Bhamjee seems to be on a quest to find the ultimate DIY face mask. She gets bonus points for not only providing the recipes, but also an honest assessment of how these homemade products made her skin look and feel after she tried them out.A photo posted by Zaahirah Bhamjee (@zaamissbowtie) on Aug 28, 2015 at 1:48am PDTA photo posted by Zaahirah Bhamjee (@zaamissbowtie) on Aug 28, 2015 at 1:48am PDT6. MICHELLE PHAN12 women who rock the hell out of natural hairIt s easy to see why over 7.9 million people subscribe to Michelle Phan s Youtube channel this US vlogger is a makeup artist with a capital A.Watch a few of her enjoyable tutorials and you ll soon be able to recreate your fave celeb s makeup, or transform yourself into a theatrical character for a costume party.But it's not just about playing dress up. Phan's vlog and her website will also teach you need-to-know beauty basics like how to shape your brows or waterproof your makeup.Bronzebeauty