Each week, hopeful publishers send fresh batches of local fiction to haunt the bookshops, but inevitably the books ghost back to their warehouses, and thence, alas, to book Valhalla.One of the explanations for this grim state of affairs that's regularly paraded around, like a "crippled" person inside a revival tent, is that old gag, "Blacks don't read".If only blacks read more, goes the lament, then our local writers wouldn't suffer such neglect. Give me a rand every time it's been said; I'll turn Thando Mgqolozana into the next John van de Ruit.I have a more convincing theory, which is as follows: whites don't read. If only whites read more, goes my lament, then our local writers would soar. How to sneak into business classMy logic is faultless. To start, if you've been awake for the past two decades, you'll have noticed that whites ended up with most of democracy's money. This, in turn, has left them quite well-positioned in relation to the cover price of a standard paperback, which is verging on R300 a pop.(For perspective, R300 is about half what it costs to subscribe to DStv for a month. Thus, in the monthly entertainment calculus, two wee books play David to Goliath's infinite hours of reality TV.)I would guess that white purchasing power accounts for at least half the turnover in South Africa's formal book trade. Couple this with the fact that whites, while rich, were severely disadvantaged by the apartheid education system, and you have a recipe for literary calamity on your hands.A novelist friend of mine first pointed out the education problem at a cultural policy conference some 25 years ago, when South Africa was beginning to thaw. To inculcate docility among whites, he observed, a school curriculum featuring sterile, platitudinal books was developed, which led to an ignorance of and lack of interest in literature generally. Blacks had Bantu Education; for whites, it was the Catechism of Trompie.And what have we reaped as a result? A "woefully tedious" bestseller list, featuring just four types of books: international airport pulp (Wilbur Smith, EL James, Lee Child and their ilk); Deon Meyer (who is a category unto himself and thus offers a shred of hope); local non-fiction, currently topped by the cheerful How Long Will South Africa Survive?; and "Lifestyle" non-fiction, dominated by colouring-in books for adults and, most of all, diet crazes.Sies, whites, what are you, the zombie (Banting) apocalypse? Get some intellectual backbone for goodness' sake. Switch out of Trompie mode for a minute and buy a proper book. Who knows? Perhaps you'll rescue South African fiction. It's a scenario that will dovetail nicely with your saviour complex.Tweet the author of this article, Ben Williams, at @benrwms.