Except it wouldn't, of course. Freedom of speech means the freedom to choose which words we use, how we use or misuse them and even how we spell them. Placing draconian restraints on language would be a violation of human rights. How to tell an elf from a pixie"Draconian", by the way, has nothing to do with dragons. The Online Etymology Dictionary says it came into use in 1876 and was derived from the name Draco - not a wizard from the Malfoy family but a Greek statesman who laid down the laws of Athens in 621BC.Draco made minor crimes punishable by death. The entry does not list what these minor crimes were, but I think we'd have heard about it if they included misdemeanours such as saying "like" instead of "such as". Using "like" as a punctuation marker between words would probably have resulted in torture followed by death.But even the most draconian of ancient Greeks did not chop people's heads off for splitting an infinitive or ending a sentence with a preposition. Perhaps they understood that such heavy-handedness would lead to revolution.Giving legislative power to militant pedants would cause a language war. Students would protest with placards reading "Stop Grammer Nazi's Now". Statues of Samuel Johnson and William Shakespeare, not to mention William Strunk and EB White (authors of The Elements of Style) would be vandalised.Using force to regulate speech and writing would make pedants no different from dictators who spy on their citizens and arrest those who say anything seditious. In a state ruled by pedants, text messages would be monitored for aberrant spelling. Anyone foolish enough to write "c u l8 r" would be carted off to the grammar gulag.Say there was a court set up to try those who commit crimes against language. To determine the naughtiness of an act of disobedience, we would first have to rank semantic sins in order from bad to worst. Here's the rub. Pedantry is an inexact science that is driven by personal bias. One pedant might prescribe lethal injection for those who begin a sentence with "but". Another might let them off with a warning. The importance of a pretty principleThere are, of course, more objective standards. Any restaurateur who puts an apostrophe in "pizza's" should have to write out a thousand corrected menus by hand, if you ask me. And I'd call for a special branch of the language security bureau to seek out and eliminate clich s such as "land of contrasts".Next question: how would we punish nonconformists? Perhaps they could receive a suspended sentence for a minor first offence - mixing up "incident" and "incidence", say. But if they turned into recidivists who refused to stop writing "revert back" instead of just "revert", harsher measures would be taken - a prison term for repeat offenders, perhaps, and life behind bars for hardened criminals who feel nothing about shoving an erroneous "d" in "privilege".Incidentally, what is the opposite of a hardened criminal? If one is going to have criminals in one's vicinity, I think I'd prefer the softened kind. Which reminds me of the thief who fell into a cement mixer and became a hardened criminal.There was no cement back in Draco's day, but if any of his subjects told a joke that bad he would probably have had them stoned.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.