I am mad about gossip writer Maditaba in the Sowetan. She not only says it like it is; she shouts it. She's a rude girl, who never gets out of a car; it's always a convertible.Many of the people she writes about look a bit low rent, something she never fails to point out.Madi would like to call out Muvhango actress Suzan Ravuku. "Love, what on earth were you wearing, that was one of the worst dresses Madi has ever seen. Not everyone thinks you are amazing. Get a dress that is not Kelso."TV star Nolly Meje's lack of dress sense: "She looked like a matron at a Cofimvaba mental institution."Madi thinks loyalty is a recessive gene; she likes nothing better than to cause fizz between couples. "He was all over the other girl but Madi knows his real girlfriend," she writes knowingly.She can get down and dirty: "Yoh, Mara Louw [the Idols judge] evoked her inner Abigail Kubeka and showed her highly made-up face, almost like she took a bucket of foundation and poured it on her face. Mara, you are old, no amount of makeup can fix that."Has anyone noticed a bit of boep on David Tlale? I don't know if it's the champagne or winter fat cakes, but let's ease up a bit shall we David? We don't want to end up looking like Uncle Gavin Rajah, do we now?"Usually, men have a better time with Madi than women."The boy is gorgeous. Madi will give him that. Pity Madi is not [siner/actress/model] Lucia Mthiyane or she would have taken you home."Actor Siphiwe Mtshali was there with some aesthetically challenged girl who he said is his wife."Who writes these columns and how do they get away with being so rude?Mpumelelo Mkhabela, editor of the Sowetan, explains, "For one thing Maditaba isn't her real name. She's such a naughty girl. Sometimes she writes things that I cross out because they're too rude, like 'so-and-so really needs to buy a good bra'. But she insists on keeping them in."Another gossip column that flames through the Sunday World is Shwashwi. It is crude, rude and erratically written, with spelling mistakes like "champaign". Her favourite phrase is "on point", culled from the tiresome Urban Dictionary and taken originally from the French en pointe, or "cutting edge".Gossip writing in the pre-tabloid era was inspirational. Dorothy Parker led the pack. Famous Hollywood gossip writer Hedda Hopper nailed it when she said, "Nobody wants to read about sweetness and light, darling." Hatchet-faced Louella Parsons was known as the queen of Hollywood, so powerful and feared were her columns.Someone such as Herman Lategan, who has written gossip columns, explains the true horror of serving an editor, a celebrity and the truth at the same time. The celebrity is looking for puff, the editor is looking for poison; the truth lies somewhere between. "You have no idea - the editors push you. I lost a lot of friends."But black women seem to get away with more. Vera in the Sowetan, who has a semi-satirical column about parliament, writes that the new ideology is Guptarism, Minister of Higher Education Blade Nzimande is her favourite "bourgeois communist" and she thinks that Minister of Water Affairs Nomvula Mokonyane's bums are needed to shield No1 from attack, something Mokonyane had suggested herself.Mkhabela admits that the column is written by contributors but says it is collated by one person, which gives it cohesion. No names, no pack drill.I imagine all these gossip chicks in hot heels with a crowd of cool people who smoke blunts, skeltering through town on running boards, wearing Snakilta Christian Louboutin red boots and flanked by outriders in gold armour.But who knows, perhaps the columns are written by an ancient, white, retired subeditor - there are often strange references, like a Frankenstein movie which was made in 1935 - who wears white ankle-length socks and takes nips from a bottle of gin in his drawer.