Serves: 2 Pickled carrots:100ml white wine vinegar100ml water75g white sugar5g yellow mustard seeds1 heritage carrot, cut into strips4 baby carrots, peeled, blanched and cut into ribbons 5 easy recipes inspired by Oscar-winning actorsQuail sauce:30ml (2 tbsp) vegetable oilBones of 2 quail carcasses, chopped carrot, peeled and quartered stick celery, quartered1 small onion, peeled and quartered100ml white wine25ml Madeira2.5ml ( tsp) salt1 clove garlic4 sprigs thyme1 bay leaf400ml chicken stockQuail marinade:2ml ( tsp) fennel seeds2ml ( tsp) cumin seeds150ml extra virgin olive oilQuail vinaigrette:200ml quail sauce, reduced to 100ml100ml extra virgin olive oil15ml (1 tbsp) sherry vinegarCarrot pur e:200g carrots, peeled and diced500ml (2 cups) carrot juice2.5ml ( tsp) salt2 star anise25ml extra virgin olive oil5g xanthan gumCarrot vinaigrette:300ml carrot juice, reduced to 50ml20ml extra virgin olive oil10ml (2 tsp) white wine vinegarOther ingredients:2 whole quail2.5ml ( tsp) table salt30ml (2 tbsp) vegetable oil25g unsalted butter Movie review: 'Burnt'Method:1) For the pickled carrots, place the vinegar, water, sugar and mustard seeds in a pan and bring to the boil. Remove from heat and allow to cool. Place carrots in pickling liquid and refrigerate overnight.2) For the quail sauce, heat the oil in a pan and fry the quail bones until golden brown. Remove and set aside. In the same pan, fry the carrot, celery and onion until golden. Add the wine and Madeira and simmer until syrupy. Return the bones to the pan with the salt, garlic, thyme, bay leaf and stock and simmer for 45 minutes, skimming any fat off the top. Strain through a fine sieve and set aside.3) For the quail marinade, dry-fry the fennel and cumin seeds until toasted, grind finely and mix with the oil. Set aside to infuse for 1 hour, then strain through a fine sieve.4) For the quail vinaigrette, whisk all ingredients together and set aside. Whisk well before using. For the carrot pur e, place carrots, juice, salt and star anise in a saucepan and boil until carrots are tender. Remove the star anise and discard. Strain the liquid, reserving the carrots, and heat in a pan until reduced by half. Add to the carrots and blend with the oil until smooth and glossy. Add the xanthan gum, blend and pass through a fine sieve.5) For the carrot vinaigrette, whisk all ingredients together and set aside. Whisk well before using.6) Preheat the oven to 180 C. Season the quail with salt. Heat the oil in an oven-proof frying pan and brown the quail on all sides. Add the butter and continue to baste. Place in the oven for 4 minutes, then remove and rest for 10 minutes. Remove from the bone and place in the quail marinade. 7) When ready to serve, place the quail in the oven for 4 minutes, skin side up. Dot carrot pur e on the plates and arrange quail and carrots, dressed with vinaigrette. British chef Marcus Wareing was the culinary consultant on 'Burnt'.