My notorious ignorance precedes me, so everyone knows that I am wrong more often than I am right about pretty much everything. But I have never been more spectacularly wrong as I was in my assumption that every doctor would howl with laughter at my gross generalisations and stereotypes.Hordes of humourless folks in white coats and stethoscopes descended upon me like a swarm of ants upon a wank stain. One such humourless specimen from the doctor subspecies even authored a 1200-word rebuttal to my 800-word tongue-in-cheek piece, uploaded it on his blog and trolled my Twitter timeline for days on end, challenging anyone to an early-morning duel who dared disagree with his assertion that doctors are generally cooler than Denzel Washington in Training Day. When your day's so dreadful it's diem horribilisBecause I'm a sucker for pain and an attention whore who craves relevance more than Donald Trump, I have decided to use this column to home in on my second-favourite subspecies: my engineer friends. This is because I believe that a major part of my job is that when I see an angry leopard in a cage, I must poke it with a stick and see what happens.So here goes nothing. I have never met a more hilariously depressing group of people than engineers. I didn't get good enough grades in mathematics and science to get accepted into a good engineering school and I was frankly not interested, which is why I never bothered applying. At university, in the first year of my science degree, I found few things more soul-diminishing than physics 1A practicals. Some sadistic individual decided that physics practicals would take place between 2pm and 5pm on a freaking Friday afternoon.And this is how it came to pass that I spent my Friday afternoons in a dingy laboratory playing around with miniature wooden trolleys, the intention being to prove some Newtonian law or another, with the sounds of Brenda Fassie wafting in through the windows from giant speakers in the cafeteria reminding me that life was passing me by. But my classmates, many of whom ended up as engineers, were at that very moment emitting squeals of ecstasy as their trolleys proved conclusively for the 345786th time that Newton was indeed right. And don't get me started on engineers' mating rituals. I have seen more romance and subtlety at Noord Street taxi rank But your friends are your friends, right? So I have maintained contact with my engineer friends without judging them for their propensity to wear Woolies chinos for no good reason that I could think of initially. And then I discovered something about engineers that has helped me understand them better. You see, engineers value practicality over everything else under the sun. Aesthetics, enjoyment, laughter - these are distractions standing in the way of the engineer's Holy Grail: the perfect design.I remember meeting up with a friend of mine for a beer in Thembisa township. Let's call him Chris for two reasons: because Chris is a good, solid name for an engineer, and because his folks actually christened him Christopher in a moment of clairvoyance, considering his chosen profession. As it happens, I was wearing new takkies. Chris started going on and on about how badly designed my shoes were. I offered weakly, "Yeah, but they look snazzy", to which he responded with a defeated look as if I'd said something in Aramaic.I totally get his bewilderment with my sneakers. It has been my observation that there seems to be an unstated engineer's uniform: Bronx or Caterpillar shoes, chinos (preferably from The Hub) and what I call Boy Scout shirts. And this uniform is for both male and female engineers, just in case you thought I was being sexist. Chitchat not just for the birdsI think there's a practical reason for this garb. You see, if there had to be an engineering emergency of sorts, all they'd have to do is put on a hard hat and they'd look like they've been on site all along. After all, who can tell the difference between safety boots and Caterpillars? You could ask Chris to describe R8,000 Tom Ford sunglasses and he would go into a lengthy lecture about the combination of polymers used to make the frame.And don't get me started on engineers' mating rituals. I have seen more romance and subtlety at Noord Street taxi rank. My male engineer friends approach courtship with the same objective they have in mind when designing the perfect capacitor. If your date has a brand-new iPhone S6 Plus, most of us will praise its apps and slim shape and whatnot.A Christopher will launch into a dissertation on the digital-to-analogue conversion chips, the signal processor of the circuit board and the intricacies of the liquid crystal display until he has sucked all the mystery and enjoyment out of a beautiful gadget.And if two engineers get married, what kind of sex talk do they have? "Tonight I'm going to ride you reverse cowboy style because it provides the best body weight distribution considering that M1a=M1x+M2b where M2 is my body mass and b is the distance from the fulcrum, which is my pelvic girdle."E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo