I'm impressed. Looking back, I'd imagine that among the lowlights of her reign, which include Prince Harry's entire existence, the year 1992 is one she wishes had never happened. That is the year two of her children, Andrew and Anne, called it quits on their respective marriages, Diana spilt the royal beans in a biography and one of her palaces nearly burnt to the ground. She called it an annus horribilis, which I learnt then is Latin for "terrible year".Maybe not all of us have experienced our own versions of an annus horribilis, but I'll bet a hundred randelas that we've all experienced a day so terrible that, by the time we were ready to crash, we'd wished we had not left our beds in the morning. In Latin, such a day is called diem horribilis, terrible day.And I'm not even referring to seriously horrible days such as the day we lost a loved one or, like former president Mbeki, were told by our comrades of 30 years to vacate the Union Buildings for no good reason. No, I'm talking about a day that is characterised by an accumulation of seemingly innocuous mishaps that ultimately make you lose it completely.You wake up at 7.13am and you're immediately startled by how bright it is outside. You had set the alarm to wake you up at 6.30 to give yourself plenty of time to get to your 8.30 meeting in Pretoria. Damn. You're the one who postponed the meeting from last Tuesday to today, so you have no business being late for it. Spare us the politics of being politeSo you Usain Bolt out of bed into the shower and turn on the water. Only after you've properly wet yourself do you realize that there's only a sliver the size of a gnat's pancreas on the soap holder. But you're already wet so you might as well make lemonade of this lemon. You grab at the gnat's pancreas too quickly and the slippery sucker slips out of your hand. I can't think of more than three things more impossible than picking up a tiny piece of soap off a wet floor. I'd rather try to thread a needle, blindfolded, with shaky hands, after 12 J gerbombs the previous night.So you bolt towards the kitchen, wet, inevitably slipping and nearly dislocating your shoulder.Now, if your brain was functioning properly, you would admit defeat and go back to bed. But you ignore all the flashing signs.By the time you get into the car it's 7.31. You start the car and discover that some careless person (let's call her Mrs N, hypothetically) used the car and left you with roughly half a cup's worth of gas in the tank which means - dammit! - going via the filling station.Of course you discover that you forgot your wallet at home, after the petrol attendant has filled up. Now you're that idiot who has to leave your R10,000 phone as surety against R800 worth of petrol while you dash back home. Naturally, at the very moment you open the gate to leave the house for the second time, an attention-seeking neighbour's French poodle saunters by, prompting your mutt to bolt and run after the canine hottie.Now you're that guy running halfway down the street yelling bloodcurdling expletives trying to break up this romance like the evil stepmother getting between Cinderella and Prince Charming. Forget wiper blades, here's what street vendors should be sellingBy the time you're back at the filling station, drenched in sweat and panting, it's already 7.48, which means you have 42 minutes to get to Pretoria in Gauteng traffic. If you've experienced a diem horribilis, you know what happens next, right? Every lane you choose in the traffic slows down to a crawl, 0.3seconds after you join it. And if you change to another lane, you cast a spell on it and it grinds down to a halt. In short, you're a living, breathing bad-luck magnet.Just when you think it cannot get worse, a pebble spins from the back wheel of a construction truck, performs a 180 back flip in the air reminiscent of the magic bullet first described in the Warren commission, dodges three cars and goes straight for your windscreen, smack bang in the middle of your view.For me, it is usually around this point that I seriously start thinking about cutting my losses and turning for home while wailing about how I want my mommy.But we soldier on, don't we? After all, we're rational people who don't believe in hocus pocus such as bad luck. No matter how many signs that the Dark Angel is hovering above, sprinkling crumbs of diem horribilis on us, we forge ahead with our days.After a day not too dissimilar to the one I just described, I arrived home with a battered soul, feeling sorry for myself and in dire need of a double whiskey on the rocks. The straw that finally broke this camel's back was the invisible poltergeist that yanked the whiskey bottle out of my hand and hurled it across the room, where it crashed to smithereens on the tiled floor.For the first time in my life, I understood how Howard Beale from the motion picture Network felt when he screamed, "I'M AS MAD AS HELL AND I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE IT ANYMORE!"E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo