COMBAT SHINEThere's a common misconception that oily skin doesn't need moisture. In fact, if you don't replenish the skin barrier after cleansing, your skin will produce extra oil.Skin ID skincare therapist Sonette Donker says that skin produces excess oil in summer to protect itself from the heat. But excess oil is not all bad: oily skin ages more slowly than dehydrated skin. "The oil of the skin contains ursolic acid, which has anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antibacterial and antifungal properties, preventing the growth of bacteria and fungus on the skin," says Donker.For oily skin, use products with gentle moisturising components, and oil-absorbing ingredients such as bentonite clay to help keep the shine at bay. Beauty buys to try: Nivea Perfect &amp; Radiant Light Moisturiser for Oily Skin, R80, works well for skin that is prone to shine: it absorbs easily and doesn't leave a film on skin. Neutrogena Visibly Clear Pore and Shine Daily Wash, R90. A citrus-scented cleansing product that helps reduce the appearance of enlarged pores. Placecol Clarity Matt Mist, R260. A great toner to use before moisturising. Anticongestion properties help calm inflamed skin. Uriage Hys ac Mat' Matifying Emulsion, R190, helps tighten pores. MAC Blot Film, R200, absorbs oil on skin's surface without adding product. Handy for on-the-go shine control.EXTRA EXFOLIATIONNew skin cells reflect light better than dead ones, so gently removing dead skin cells makes way for the new ones beneath, revealing a fresher complexion. Exfoliated skin also prepares the skin for serums and treatments, allowing them to penetrate the skin deeply for more effective results.Opt for either physical exfoliation - using a product that contains particles - or enzymatic exfoliation - using a product that contains active ingredients such as alpha-hydroxy acids to dissolve the bonds between the dead skin cells. How to boost the power of your beauty sleep Beauty buys to try: Uriage Hys ac Deep Pore-Cleansing Lotion, R215, contains alpha- and beta-hydroxy acids to gently clarify skin before moisturising and after cleansing. Gatineau Body Lotion with AHA, R425, leaves skin feeling smooth and silky. Dermaceutic Mask 15 Oil Reducing Mask, R700, contains 15% glycolic acid and 2% salicylic acid for exfoliation. It reduces excess oil and shine.SUN-CARE BOOSTNow is the time to crank your sun-care routine up a notch, not forgetting wrists, hands and scalps. Previously, SPFs tended to leave a thick, ashy residue on the skin. Now there is a host of modern SPFs on the market which feel light, fresh and blendable, making them easy to slot in a skincare routine. Beauty buys to try: Eucerin DermoPurifyer Adjunctive Hydrating Care, R170, has a high sun protection factor and can be used in conjunction with acne medication. It moisturises skin well and is good for sensitive skin. Eucerin Sun Gel-Creme Oil Control Dry Touch SPF50+ R180. The light gel texture absorbs quickly and mattifying ingredients such as tapioca starch help skin stay matte throughout the day. Heliocare Gel Oil-Free SPF50, R390, contains antioxidants which increase skin protection.WATERPROOF MAKEUPLong-wearing products work wonders to prevent makeup melting by mid afternoon. Waterproof mascara resists water but is not necessarily able to cope with oil. If your eyelids are oily, you might find your mascara runs. Try a polymer-tube formula, which wraps product around each lash, is resistant to product transfer and adds length and girth. The formula also stays put until you use warm water to remove it. Trendy makeup looks to copy from the catwalk Beauty buys to try: Smashbox 24 Hour Photo Finish Shadow Primer, R230. One of our favourite long-wearing products. Ideal for oily eyelids. Bobbi Brown Long-Wear Even Finish Foundation SPF 15, R495. The velvety texture stays put throughout the day or night. MAC Extended Play Gigablack Lash, R210. The tubular mascara works well on short lashes because the tiny brush grabs every lash. Smashbox 24 Hour CC Spot Concealer, R320, hides blemishes and fades dark spots that pimples can cause over time.