My taste buds are so sensitive that I have been known to sit there with a plate for two hours at people's parties, stabbing at terrible food, much to Mrs N's chagrin. She reckons it's rude not to eat what your host has cooked with love.I hold a different view. I believe it is an affront to my palate to eat meat that was prepared by dunking it in bucket-loads of Helios oil. And then she calls me a culinary snob, which bothers me to the same extent that I care about Justin Bieber's wardrobe - not one eetsy li'l bit.I blame my gran and my mom for my food snobbery. They completely ruined me by being such accomplished cooks. My maternal grandmother is from the Kinloch clan which hails from Verulam, north of Durban, in a place called Mhlasini. My mom grew up in an era before the Group Areas Act, so her neighbourhood was extremely colourful and the multicultural hue infused itself into their cuisine.As a result garam masala, Madrasi masala, harissa, mango murabba and Malay-style pickled vegetables were as much a part of my diet as phuthu and amasi. This meant that when my folks shipped us off to relatives during the July holidays, our tongues struggled a bit. Why engineers are a hilariously depressing group of peopleThere was one aunt whose idea of a chicken stew was dunking pieces of chicken in a pot of water and boiling the damn things before adding salt, some tomatoes and potatoes before serving it up.My elder brother Mazwi and I would sit there with chewy pieces of chicken bulging in our cheeks, our taste buds screaming, "Chicken spice please! At least some mild Rajah! Is there any garlic or parsley or ginger or anything at all to go with this, please?!" In the end we'd end up sprinkling so much Aromat on the food that she declared it off-limits.I was reminded of this when I recently watched the movie The Hundred-Foot Journey, based on a novel by Richard C Morais and starring Helen Mirren and Om Puri. It is any foodie's dream motion picture. One of my favourite scenes is when the seemingly nomadic Indian family leaves England to settle in rural France and a French customs official is interviewing the second-born son, Hassan, about their reasons for leaving England.His response? "The vegetables [in England]; they have no soul."Jet streams of cabernet spurted out of my nostrils when I heard that. That one sentence vividly crystallised every thought I have ever had about my experience of English food. When Mrs N lived in England for about six months I remember how, ahead of my first visit, she asked me to go to the Grey Street Market in Durban and bring her some spices.Although I was pretty certain that I was breaking international agricultural laws, I found my inner "El Chapo" Guzman and smuggled the contraband in my hand luggage. After all, no law enforcement agent would be able to see through this impregnable, ingenious ruse. As it turned out, I was right. Or maybe the customs officials were just sympathetic and turned a blind eye to my garam masala because they, too, had been subjected to English food all their lives.So I arrived at Mrs N's lodgings like a conquering hero in the mould of the great Soshangane, bearing spicy delights. Even before I had unpacked my suitcase, she grabbed the spices in feverish desperation, dashed to the kitchen and started spicing the meat. I personally think she was a tad heavy-handed with the spice but, hey, I also once gulped down three pints of beer on a flight after a beerless week in Malaysia. Then she stuck the meat in the oven. In no time the kitchen was filled with aromas from Mumbai. But that was as close as we got to any delight.It was like eating spiced cardboard. We could taste the spice but the meat itself was impervious to any spice. I have tasted more flavoursome chalk. When your day's so dreadful it's diem horribilisSo we put together a spice mix and marinated some chicken with it for 24 hours - with the same results. There was something inherently lifeless about the meat and the vegetables, as if they had been sprinkled with something I have referred to as anti-spice ever since.Mrs N's housemate was a hulk of a man called Emmanuel who kept offering us crumbly biscuits that reminded me of candle wax. Apparently, after she'd refused his biscuits a few times, he asked her if we have biscuits in Africa.But there is a limit to how adventurous my tongue is. Once in Malaysia I found myself in a restaurant with a bunch of Malaysian colleagues. As is customary over there, we were all dishing up onto our plates from a selection of pots in the centre of the table.I have no idea exactly what it is that we were eating but it was so hot and spicy that I found myself perspiring like a certain minister reading the Nkandla report. I dunked a spoon into a pot of broth and came up with what I think is the largest eyeball I have ever seen in my life. It was definitely not a cow's eyeball so I'm always telling my kids that I once went to Malaysia and had Cyclops soup.In Malaysia, my palate met its Waterloo. A sadistic colleague told the other guys with a wink, "Hey, let Ndumi taste durian." The other fellows all protested wildly and shook their fingers at him. And then I smelled this Malaysian fruit called the durian and decided on the spot that I would never put that vileness in my mouth. I bet even the most hardened captive would point out all the Islamic State locations if you forced them to eat durian. The next time you smell ox tripe, be grateful for the lovely aroma.E-mail Ndumiso Ngcobo at ngcobon@sundaytimes.co.za or follow him on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo