I was delighted to read a press release announcing that a former local beauty queen had been appointed the "principle judge" in this contest."Look," I said to a colleague. "They are finally placing value on morality.""No, they're not," she replied. "They've just misspelt 'principal'."I would have liked to give the organisers the benefit of the doubt, but on reflection I had to admit my colleague was right. Miss Usedtobemostbeautiful was going to be the chief judge of hair and dentistry. She was not responsible for measuring the good deeds of the gorgeous.</img> Image: Piet Grobler Image: Piet Grobler"Principal" and "principle" are easy words to confuse. At high school a teacher suggested we remember the difference between the word-endings by thinking of the principal as our pal. That wasn't much use as an aide-m moire, not with our kind of principal anyway. I can't vouch for all his principles, but being pally with pupils was not among his guiding lights.Principle comes from the Latin principium, which means "beginning" or "origin". The plural, principia, meant the axioms or foundation of a discipline. Isaac Newton's Philosophi Naturalis Principia Mathematica, published in Latin in 1687, continued to be known as simply "the Principia" even after it was translated into English (Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy) in 1728.Principium took a different road. In the 1650s, the singular word "principle" began to be associated almost exclusively with goodness or morality. A principled person is the sort you want as your bank manager - or school principal, for that matter. A principled beauty queen would mean it when she wished for world peace.While principle settled down to live a life of righteousness, principal appointed itself head of everything. This is not so surprising when you consider that despite their physical similarities they have different fathers. Principal is from the Latin principalis - "first in importance". Trace this backwards via the Online Etymology Dictionary and you get to princeps, a chief or leader, whence cometh also princes and princesses. Might Stikeez follow Spoof into the dictionary?Princes and principals may be linguistic siblings, but just like many real brothers and sisters they have little in common. In the principality of Monaco, the principal pursuit of the unprincipled appears to be primping and prinking. But let me not cast aspersions. That was a purely personal and shallow surface impression, as is my perhaps unfair assessment of beauty contests.I'm sure any beauty queen, or either of her two princesses, could tell you the difference between "moral" and "morale". One has to do with virtue; the other means confidence, or good spirits. The funny thing about this is it should have been the other way round, but the spellings got mixed up. Both moral and morale were assimilated into English from Old French, which distinguished between le moral as "temperament" and la morale as "morality". How demoralised the French must have been by this rosbif confusion of mustard with horseradish.I have never quite understood the difference between a person of low morals and one with no morals at all. Perhaps the first feels guilty about cheating on an exam but does it anyway, and the second feels not a single pang of conscience?One is always on shaky ground when taking a principled stand on language. Maybe we should be less judgmental and view words in the same light as beauty queens: as long as they are pretty, does it really matter whether they are right?