Coastal properties that boast sea views have always been popular and generally command a premium regardless of where they are situated. However, given the rise in property prices along the Atlantic Seaboard, it seems there is far more at play than a sea view.So exactly what is it that encourages high-end individuals to part with their hard-earned millions in a bid to own property in this exclusive area?Luxury Cape Town cribs in demandIan Slot, managing director, Seeff Atlantic Seaboard, says that the area has the X factor . He puts this down to its location, the scarcity of land and the area s exclusivity. Location cannot be overemphasised , he says. The context of the setting between mountain and sea, which are scenic, to say the least, as well as the fact that Cape Town is the country s most popular tourist city. There is a limit to how much land and property there is, and with so much demand, the prices and values and can only go up, Slot adds. What we are finding is that buyers will now buy an older house for the location and knock it down. As far as exclusivity is concerned, Slot says, When investing on the Atlantic Seaboard, you know you are investing in a solid store of wealth you are surrounded by land that has not only retained its value for over 50 years but has grown in value at record rates and delivered phenomenal growth for property owners. You are also surrounded by only an exclusive few who can afford to live in the area. And then there is the lifestyle. Slot says, The Atlantic Seaboard lifestyle is almost without compare the stunning views, beautiful white sandy Blue Flag beaches, rocky coastline and palm-fringed promenades lined with trendy hangouts. Apartment prices soar in Cape Town's CBDBasil Moraitis, area manager, Pam Golding Properties, says there is no doubt that the spectacular scenic views provide a compelling reason for buyers to acquire property in the area. However, he adds that the proximity of attractions such as the V&amp;A Waterfront, Cape Town s city centre and the Kloof Street area, with its host of restaurants, pavement cafes and various other forms of entertainment, all contribute to a highly desirable residential location.Says Moraitis, Iconic homes with unique features which make these properties highly appealing and which are well positioned on guaranteed view sites are sought after among very high-end buyers. Such buyers are prepared to pay a premium for the assurance of owning a property located in a very elevated position, where their spectacular view is guaranteed and cannot be obstructed in the future. This article was originally published in Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property &amp; Lifestyle. Visit yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.