The mechanics of my profession often require me to fly to another city, rent a car, drive it, then check into a hotel where I'll sleep for a night or two or more. I'm not going to pretend that a large portion of what I do for a living is not very cool, but what's weird about all the flying and driving and sleeping is that it takes place while sitting or lying on a seat/mattress that has been sat or lain upon by hundreds of thousands of other people.Also, I shower and defecate and brush my teeth and watch TV and read and (sometimes) eat in a room that has often been designed and decorated to make me feel like I'm at home-away-from-home, a room that has been cleaned so exhaustively that I'm supposed to suspend my grossed-out feelings that, again, the shower/toilet/bed has been used by hundreds of thousands of other humans before me. Instead, all the scrupulous cleaning and methodical laying out of the room achieves is to remind me that I am sharing the space with the remnants of myriad bodies that have come and gone.It's the big hotel chains that give me this sensation. Guesthouses are kind of different because they seem less busy and so you lead yourself to believe that they are less frequented by business people and the unfaithful, and more frequented by happy, clean people who are on holiday.It's the numbers I guess. When you're staying at a guesthouse that can accommodate a max of say, eight or 12 at any one time, it just feels like a house full of people and you sort of feel that the guests are mindful of that, so there's certain hideous acts they will not partake in because everyone will know about it because you're familiar with each other's faces. A hotel chain is different. They've got, like, 300 rooms or more and the anonymity not only causes people to act in ways they wouldn't normally act, and do things they would never dream of doing in any other locale, it also makes anyone staying in one of the many, many rooms feel incredibly lonely.The uniformity of it, the repeated themes in every room and all those countless windows; it's like a gulag or those horrendous grey apartment blocks in China where seemingly millions of people are stacked on top of one another because it's the only space they can afford to live and breathe and love in.Then there's that awful, haunting silence. I think you appreciate, even expect, some quiet when you stay in a hotel, but there's a quality to the hush that pervades the halls and rooms of massive hotels that brings on cabin fever. It's a silence manufactured by double-glazing and a monstrous aircon system, so instead of being calming, the silence falls as pure white noise, and white noise, well, enough of it can make you feel like you're going insane. The whole point of white noise is that you're not supposed to be conscious of it, which is why the deep throbbing silence of a large hotel is something that penetrates your very soul and leaves you feeling constantly drowsy whenever you're in the mute cocoon of your room. No wonder hotels are witness to suicides.Another thing reminding you that you are very much not-at-home is the fixtures. Would you put one of those swing-arms at the top of a door in your home, the ones that stop the door from slamming and make that pneumatic, Terminator-esque hiss each time you close the door? No, you would not, because it makes you feel like you're in an office or working at Cyberdyne Systems. Would you put a green/red open/occupied swivel lever thing on your bathroom door? No, because that's what public toilets have. Lie on your bed and what do you see? Sprinklers attached to the ceiling. Sit at the table to eat your in-room meal and what do you have to shift out of the way so you can put your plate down? A small Perspex triangle with a no-smoking sign on it. You can never feel further from home with fixtures and objects like these, not to mention the fact that the light switches are so numerous and never, ever where you expect them to be so, on top of the aching loneliness you feel by day two, you're also disorientated.As for the weird irony of your hotel room's cleanliness: oh, you so appreciate not ever seeing/coming into contact with a foreign hair of any size/origin, and you marvel at the comforting whiteness of the toilet bowl and the bath and the amazingly mould-free shower, but - and maybe I'm alone on this - you'd like to see some signs of life, wouldn't you? But no. Not a single ant. Not a single speck of microbial dust. Nothing. Just the very unsettling notion that many a human frequented the room before you and yet there is no trace left of them. And so it will be in your own case.