In an effort to discover whether my house does in fact have walls, I have been dismantling the towers of books that serve as wallpaper. The intention was to throw out any volume neither beloved nor useful, but we all know which avenue is tarred with good intentions. Instead I spent hours paging through books I had forgotten I had.One of these was A Dictionary of Fairies by Katharine Briggs. Four hundred and seventy-nine pages (in tiny type) contain everything you didn't know you needed to know about these mythical creatures. Are they mythical? In her preface, Briggs writes: "The folklorist who specialises in fairy-lore is often asked if he believes in fairies ... I am an agnostic." Might Stikeez follow Spoof into the dictionary?Having settled that question, or at least evaded it, she goes on to give an exhaustive account of supernatural beings and the people who have studied them. I read about the Dunnie, a shape-shifting spirit from Bedford Moor. In Australia, "dunny" is slang for toilet. It is probably possible to etymologically link a Northumbrian cave dweller who appeared in the form of a donkey to an outback lavatory, but I'm not going to do it here.The word "fairy" is a late one, according to Briggs, "not used before medieval times and sometimes then with the meaning of mortal women who had acquired magical powers". Old-fashioned fairies were for the most part nasty bitey things, more like tokoloshes than the fluttering gauzy sprites we know from Disney movies.Briggs was no fan of Victorian fairies, saying they were "debased by 19th-century prettification". She does not deign to include JM Barrie or Tinkerbell among her fey folk, although Tolkien earns a mention. She praises the creator of hobbits for the way his dragons, gnomes, goblins and elves "fit into the world of Scandinavian mythology".It is all too easy to sneer at arguments over which fairies are "real" and which fake. I am reminded of an episode of The Office in which earnest Gareth is being baited by Tim and Dawn. "So what's an elf?" asks Tim. Gareth replies: "An elf is a supernatural being. Sometimes they're invisible, like fairies."The point is not whether such creatures exist but what they tell us about how word definitions are altered by works of art (in this I include Disney movies). "The rise of tradition into literature and the descent of literature into tradition is a fascinating study," writes Briggs. Modern slang words are older than you'd thinkIncidentally, "pixilated", meaning mildly insane or tipsy, comes from "pixie-led", a person beguiled by pixies. "Pixelated" with an "e" is what happens to an over-enlarged photograph and has nothing to do with fairy folk. It comes from "pix", a perversion of "pics", which is short for "pictures".Pixies (originally "pigsies") were fairies from Cornwall. Of elves, Briggs tells us that the Nordic variety took on the appearance of humans but could be recognised by their long cows' tails. In England, "the name was particularly applied to small fairy boys".As one might expect, Santa's little helpers do not feature. Nor does the Cockney publican I once heard complain about "the department of elf and safety". I imagined officious elves making notes on their clipboards about dirty beer glasses.Briggs died long before Harry Potter met the house-elf Dobby, of whom she would have disapproved. She was a pedant set on protecting the origins of her fantasy subjects, as fascinated by language as she was by goblins.No doubt she would have been horrified by the error on the first page of her dictionary, where her mini-biography begins "Katharine Briggs was born in 1989" and ends "Katharine Briggs died in 1980". Was this the doing of a malicious fairy or a bad elf?E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1.